script-lib-doc/README.md, before:

# script lib doc

## objective & scope

a nexus for all things CLI DRY'ed from scripts. the development rubric is
that we let this library evolve practically and iteratively; not as much by
design.



### our :[#608.6] "holy 6" internal API for CLI components

#### _(don't get attached to the number "6" - it might increase)_

(there used to be an [#608.5] older way but at #history-A.1 it was sunsetted.)

the "holy 6" are 6 attributes typical CLI clients are expected to have:
  - stdin
  - stdout
  - stderr
  - ARGV
  - OK
  - exitstatus

the first four are straightforward and should be familiar to anyone who
has written for CLI (indeed, we call them the `_CLI_4` in an oft-used
glob variable).

(note that `ARGV` is capitalized and not the others, as a point of
specification here. this is mostly due to arbitrary historic details of how
we would access ARGV on other platforms. be advised that we might change this
to lower case for consistency.)

the last one (`exitstatus`) is again something that should be familiar,
but it will tie-in to our discussion of `OK`, which deserves a little
explanation:

although it is not necessary for CLI's to "know about" exit statuses,
we consider its use a best practice. the exit status is an integer that the
CLI will send back to the calling entity. (we consider it a poor practice
for the CLI ever to call `exit()` directly.) so..

the "holy 6" API pattern differs from its [#608.5] forebear fundamentally:
instead of a tightly defined but somewhat obtuse use of a response object
with a `result_values` dictionary and so on; under this newer API, library
functions can simply write to `OK` and `exitstatus` attributes directly..

(the client can use `@property` ..)




## <a name="node-table"></a>the node table

(this is a [\[#002\]] node table.)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content |
|---------------------------|:-----:|---|
|[#676]                     | #open | track `cover_me`
|[#610]                     |       | line stream via big string
|[#608.K]                   | #refa | lazy not necessary
|[#608.J]                   | #refa | can you employ decorators w/o a starting method
|[#608.8]                   | #trak | track places where we render parse error context
|[#608.7]                   | #trak | track fellows whose CLI exitstatus is "guilty til proven innocent"
|[#608.6]                   | #trak | this other approach to a library interface (see)
|[#608.5]                   | #trak | this one approach to a library interface (see)
|[#608.4]                   | #trak | all the places you write this same `--help` regex |
|[#608.3]                   | #trak | in the future DRY up places where you do this common isatty thing |
|[#607.E]                   | #refa | there's no way this is right
|[#607.4]                   | #open | producer scripts w/ small custom CLI's to be de-customized
|[#607.C]                   | #trak | business listener for case expressions
|[#607.B]                   |       | as referenced |
|[#607]                     |       | [internal tracking] |
|[#604.2]                   | #open | known limitation of our arg parsing
|[#603]                     |       | [the help screen parser] |
|:[#602]                    | #open | track that one issue with argparse (should patch) |




## (document-meta)

  - #history-A.1 (as referenced)
  - #broke-out & expanded

Commit message:

Re-architect markdown table: storage (not format) adapter ((1073))
We want the old format adapter support code to go away. There were 2
format adapters that used this old code: the legacy markdown stack,
and the “producer script” stuff. In this commit we re-architect things
so that the old markdown support code is integrated into the new
storage adapter API (somewhat, but not yet all the way).

We didn’t want to get rid of the idea of “collection capabilities” but
instead refined it.

Old format adapters allowed for the format name to be passed explicitly
as a parameter. In the new way this was simplified out (opting instead
to have the convention-over-configuration of using either filename
extension or schema-file-based thing). But we now let the old parameter
bleed into the new stack because of how deeply it’s integrated in to the
old way that we are absorbing.

To shoehorn the older (but preferred) stream-based paradigm of parsing
markdown so that it co-exists next to the newer (but quick and dirty)
one, we had to introduce this idea of an “adapter variant”.

Now that they have this capability-digging method, collections need to
have some amount of reflection. We want this reflection to include both
any adapter variant and a surface name for the storage adapter.
So, “collection path” becomes “collection identity”, a bundling of
all these data points into one object.

Now that old tests deal with the new style of emissions (structured,
not “expression”); we modernize the old emission testing library to be
aware of the new shape.

(times)
  09-25 05:58  prune out non-used CLI's
  09-26 18:45  (begin previous commit)
  09-27 07:20  (end previous commit)
        07:55  resume where we were - modernize markdown format adapter
        17:34  try again after some rest
  09-29 23:56  finished a file
  09-30 04:57  now

script-lib-doc/README.md, after:

# script lib doc

## objective & scope

a nexus for all things CLI DRY'ed from scripts. the development rubric is
that we let this library evolve practically and iteratively; not as much by
design.



### our :[#608.6] "holy 6" internal API for CLI components

#### _(don't get attached to the number "6" - it might increase)_

(there used to be an [#608.5] older way but at #history-A.1 it was sunsetted.)

the "holy 6" are 6 attributes typical CLI clients are expected to have:
  - stdin
  - stdout
  - stderr
  - ARGV
  - OK
  - exitstatus

the first four are straightforward and should be familiar to anyone who
has written for CLI (indeed, we call them the `_CLI_4` in an oft-used
glob variable).

(note that `ARGV` is capitalized and not the others, as a point of
specification here. this is mostly due to arbitrary historic details of how
we would access ARGV on other platforms. be advised that we might change this
to lower case for consistency.)

the last one (`exitstatus`) is again something that should be familiar,
but it will tie-in to our discussion of `OK`, which deserves a little
explanation:

although it is not necessary for CLI's to "know about" exit statuses,
we consider its use a best practice. the exit status is an integer that the
CLI will send back to the calling entity. (we consider it a poor practice
for the CLI ever to call `exit()` directly.) so..

the "holy 6" API pattern differs from its [#608.5] forebear fundamentally:
instead of a tightly defined but somewhat obtuse use of a response object
with a `result_values` dictionary and so on; under this newer API, library
functions can simply write to `OK` and `exitstatus` attributes directly..

(the client can use `@property` ..)




## <a name="node-table"></a>the node table

(this is a [\[#002\]] node table.)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content |
|---------------------------|:-----:|---|
|[#676]                     | #open | track `cover_me`
|[#610]                     |       | line stream via big string
|[#608.K]                   | #refa | lazy not necessary
|[#608.J]                   | #refa | can you employ decorators w/o a starting method
|[#608.8]                   | #trak | track places where we render parse error context
|[#608.7]                   | #trak | track fellows whose CLI exitstatus is "guilty til proven innocent"
|[#608.6]                   | #trak | this other approach to a library interface (see)
|[#608.5]                   | #trak | this one approach to a library interface (see)
|[#608.4]                   | #trak | all the places you write this same `--help` regex |
|[#608.3]                   | #trak | in the future DRY up places where you do this common isatty thing |
|[#607.G]                   | #open | chopping block
|[#607.6]                   | #trak | hidden CLI's that use cheap arg parse that are okay
|[#607.E]                   | #refa | there's no way this is right
|[#607.4]                   | #open | producer scripts w/ small custom CLI's to be de-customized
|[#607.C]                   | #trak | business listener for case expressions
|[#607.B]                   |       | as referenced |
|[#607]                     |       | [internal tracking] |
|[#604.2]                   | #open | known limitation of our arg parsing
|[#603]                     |       | [the help screen parser] |
|:[#602]                    | #open | track that one issue with argparse (should patch) |




## (document-meta)

  - #history-A.1 (as referenced)
  - #broke-out & expanded
