text-lib-doc/README.md, before:

# Text Lib

## Objective & Scope

Common text processing and text production facilities abstracted from apps.
It felt weird that lower-level facilities needed to depend on `script_lib`
to draw in facilities that are not related to CLI.




## Nodes

(This is a #[#002] node table.)
(Our range is: 609-655.)

|Id        | Main Tag | Content |
|----------|:-----:|---|
|[#613.1]  | #wish | lazy instatiation of tuples that make up 'sexps' component
|[#612.7]  | #trak | track "this/these" pluralization, inflection
|[#612.6]  | #trak | track word-wrap implementations
|[#612.5]  | #trak | track things similar to "jumble"
|[#612.4]  | #trak | stream concatenation
|[#612.3]  | #trak | rewinding iterators
|[#612.2]  | #trak | track custom "assert sequence equal" (with scanners)
|[#612]    |       | externals, algorithm tracking
|[#611]    |       | [the scanner lib]
|[#610]    | #trak | track "line stream via big string", always copy-pasted
|[#609]    |       | This library




## (document-meta)

  - #broke-out

Commit message:

feat(tag-lyfe): simplified tag query parser ((1575))
Problem: tag query parser written with a parser generator is heavy
and obtuse and loads a large library that causes CLI clients noticeable
latency. Furthermore its an external vendor dependency we’d rather not
rely on if not necessary.

Solution: For our current expected use-cases, we are happy to use
a much smaller featureset of a query grammar: we just want AND and OR
and parenthesis and just basic tags. This grammar is small enough to
parse reasonably with one of our hand-written FSAs following its
particularly popular fashion

Also:
- this “wordables” thing felt obtuse. was just “to_words” but backwards
- the ASCII tree thing is so small, we would rather not abstract it

(times)
  02-12 00:06  begin adding priority
  02-13 12:58  done making prototype for new token query parse,
               gonna split the pile now
        15:16  ok lets commit
.

text-lib-doc/README.md, after:

# Text Lib

## Objective & Scope

Common text processing and text production facilities abstracted from apps.
It felt weird that lower-level facilities needed to depend on `script_lib`
to draw in facilities that are not related to CLI.




## Nodes

(This is a #[#002] node table.)
(Our range is: 609-655.)

|Id        | Main Tag | Content |
|----------|:-----:|---|
|[#613.1]  | #wish | lazy instatiation of tuples that make up 'sexps' component
|[#612.8]  | #trak | track the ASCII "tree" visualiztion in the world
|[#612.7]  | #trak | track "this/these" pluralization, inflection
|[#612.6]  | #trak | track word-wrap implementations
|[#612.5]  | #trak | track things similar to "jumble"
|[#612.4]  | #trak | stream concatenation
|[#612.3]  | #trak | rewinding iterators
|[#612.2]  | #trak | track custom "assert sequence equal" (with scanners)
|[#612]    |       | externals, algorithm tracking
|[#611]    |       | [the scanner lib]
|[#610]    | #trak | track "line stream via big string", always copy-pasted
|[#609]    |       | This library




## (document-meta)

  - #broke-out
