pho-doc/README.md, before:

---
title: "README"
date: 2019-05-14T08:06:54-04:00
excerpt: "introduction, objective & scope."
---
## introduction, objective & scope

(#edit [#880.B] get description from groupchat from around the time of #birth lol.)


## quick sketch

when we say WASD we mean:

    PREV                     NEXT
    +---------------------------+
    |          (BODY)           |
    +---------------------------+
                          🔒 edit


when edit is unlocked:

    PREV       CREATE        NEXT
    +---------------------------+
    |        (TEXTAREA)         |
    +---------------------------+
                   cancel 🔓 save


when you click create

    NEW PREV              NEW NEXT
    +---------------------------+
    |        (TEXTAREA)         |
    +---------------------------+
                   cancel 🔓 save






## (the identifier registry)

(Our range is [#876]-[#899].)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content  |
|---------------------------|:-----:|----|
|[#899]                     | #exmp | This is an example issue.
|[#887]                     | #hole |
|[#886]                     | #open | jagged alignment of multiline descs (see "close")
|[#885.2]                   |       | this one UI sketch
|[#884]                     |       | facets towards publication (graph)
|[#883.4]                   |       | provision: TEMPORARY document demarcation
|[#883.3]                   |       | provision: we never use the 1-depth header
|[#883.2]                   |       | the first fragment in a doc will have a heading
|[#883]                     |       | (internal provisions)
|[#882.P]                   | #trak | [graph via collection]
|[#882.N]                   | #open | someone is escaping newlines. we are accidentally supporting escape sequences
|[#882.M]                   | #trak | formal attributes (the model) is balkanized
|[#882.L]                   | #trak | really fragile DOM navigation but we don't want jquery
|[#882.K]                   | #open | detect cycles in notecard collection integrity check
|[#882.J]                   | #trak | timetrack syncing: local vs remote, time field
|[#882.I]                   | #edit | edits to do in fragments
|[#882.H]                   | #wish | feature: fswatch vs. everybody else
|[#882.G]                   | #trak | empty but self-documentary files
|[#882.F]                   | #open | we need proper markdown parsing
|[#882.E]                   | #hole |
|[#882.D]                   | #hole |
|[#882.C]                   | #hole |
|[#882.B]                   | #hole |
|[#882.A]                   | #hole |
|[#882]                     |       | (internal tracking)
|[#881.3]                   |       | a roadmaps table lol
|[#881.2]                   |       | roadmap-2.dot
|[#881]                     |       | roadmap.dot
|[#880.B]                   | #edit | edit documentation
|[#880]                     |       | README




## (document-meta)

  - #birth.

Commit message:

refactor: general cleanup/loose ends ((1363))
- Improved our understanding of when we need to use `seek(0)` in our
  more complicated operations. Covered and documented.
- Got rid of “adapter variant” (relic from before magnetic fields)
- Partly because there’s not as much of a monolithic one API you need to
  fulfill, we’re moving away from the `…_as_storage_adapter_collection`
- We are close enough to settling on an “Entity” API that we’re
  discarding the `…_as_storage_adapter_entity` suffix. It has marinated.
- No more “collection implementation” flying around everywhere. edging
  it towards this “custom function” idea and calling it
  “custom functions old way” for now
- No longer throw cached html files into the toplevel of `z/` (messy)
- fh seems more conventional than fp (since we don’t want to use `f`)

(times)
  10-26 23:12  begin covering producer scripts
        01:35  done messing with trying to cover producer scripts for now
  10-27 11:16  resume. finish clean up of names
  10-28 11:35  making commit
.

pho-doc/README.md, after:

---
title: "README"
date: 2019-05-14T08:06:54-04:00
excerpt: "introduction, objective & scope."
---
## introduction, objective & scope

(#edit [#880.B] get description from groupchat from around the time of #birth lol.)


## quick sketch

when we say WASD we mean:

    PREV                     NEXT
    +---------------------------+
    |          (BODY)           |
    +---------------------------+
                          🔒 edit


when edit is unlocked:

    PREV       CREATE        NEXT
    +---------------------------+
    |        (TEXTAREA)         |
    +---------------------------+
                   cancel 🔓 save


when you click create

    NEW PREV              NEW NEXT
    +---------------------------+
    |        (TEXTAREA)         |
    +---------------------------+
                   cancel 🔓 save






## (the identifier registry)

(Our range is [#876]-[#899].)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content  |
|---------------------------|:-----:|----|
|[#899]                     | #exmp | This is an example issue.
|[#887]                     | #hole |
|[#886]                     | #open | jagged alignment of multiline descs (see "close")
|[#885.2]                   |       | this one UI sketch
|[#884]                     |       | facets towards publication (graph)
|[#883.4]                   |       | provision: TEMPORARY document demarcation
|[#883.3]                   |       | provision: we never use the 1-depth header
|[#883.2]                   |       | the first fragment in a doc will have a heading
|[#883]                     |       | (internal provisions)
|[#882.P]                   | #trak | [graph via collection]
|[#882.N]                   | #open | someone is escaping newlines. we are accidentally supporting escape sequences
|[#882.M]                   | #trak | formal attributes (the model) is balkanized
|[#882.L]                   | #trak | really fragile DOM navigation but we don't want jquery
|[#882.K]                   | #open | detect cycles in notecard collection integrity check
|[#882.J]                   | #trak | timetrack syncing: local vs remote, time field
|[#882.I]                   | #edit | edits to do in fragments
|[#882.H]                   | #wish | feature: fswatch vs. everybody else
|[#882.G]                   | #trak | empty but self-documentary files
|[#882.F]                   | #open | we need proper markdown parsing
|[#882.E]                   | #hole |
|[#882.D]                   | #hole |
|[#882.C]                   | #hole |
|[#882.B]                   | #hole |
|[#882.1]                   | #open | ideally there should be no producer scripts not covered
|[#882]                     |       | (internal tracking)
|[#881.3]                   |       | a roadmaps table lol
|[#881.2]                   |       | roadmap-2.dot
|[#881]                     |       | roadmap.dot
|[#880.B]                   | #edit | edit documentation
|[#880]                     |       | README




## (document-meta)

  - #birth.
