kiss_rdb_test/readme.md, before:

## why number scheme?

see [#010.6] for an in-depth discussion of what regression-friendliness is
and why we care about it. coming up with a "number scheme" at this level is
our manifestation of regression-friendliness at this level.



## numbering scheme

  - 0001-2499  storage adapter support (1250)
  - 2500-4999  storage adapters (3750)
  - 5000-9999  modality adaptations (7500)


## magnetics



## storage adapters

py -c 'print(tuple(round(2500 + (2500/16) + (2500 * (i/8))) for i in range(0, 8)))'

  - markdown-table (because lol) (2656)
  - rec (first because respect for elders) (2969)
  - csv (should be simplest, dumb) (3281)
  - json (widely supported) (3594)
  - xml (stable) (3906)
  - toml (was first) (4219)
  - yaml (fallback) (4531)
  - eno (dream) (4844)


## modality adaptations

py -c 'print(tuple(round(5000 + (5000/14) + (5000 * (i/7))) for i in range(0, 7)))'

  - API (5357)
  - niCLI (6071)
  - iCLI (6786)
  - web/React-ish (7500)
  - desktop (8214)
  - mobile (8929)
  - secrets of the universe (9643)




## (document-meta)

  - #history-A.1
  - #birth

Commit message:

Renames 4/4: documentation & manual cleanup (366)
Discussion: The new numberspace of *ten thousand* case numbers grows
very cramped very quickly, when you divide it by four and then by eight,
and then you are left with only 312 case number slots for your whole
storage adapter (which already has 127 existing cases). Over *days* we
tried a variety of programmatic techniques for this re-allocation,
landing on a procedure that was necessarily surgical and data-driven.

And:
  - maybe we can finally free ourselves of the tyranny of sys.path hacks

(times)
  06-10 19:12  resume renames
        21:57  62 occurrences of these 11 modules names to rename
        22:19  done with rough pass, go for another 40 min
        02:58  working
        03:21  all test passing for the toml SA
        03:50  we may have proven that we can use the old ruby tool
        04:57  366 passing
        08:40  all tests passing. need to commit and do case numbers. zz
        10:26  from lab cafe
        10:34  233 lines with /Case\d\d\d/
        10:47  search/replace worked on a simulation. leave for Fluity
        20:13  ok slept and woke
        20:16  begin come up with new allocations for 19 test files
        03:40  was exhausting writing ruby again, need nap
        07:39  add all 366 tests passing with new ID's,
               no more 3-digit IDs. 80 min later zz
  06-12 14:36  in good shape, doing lots of cosmetic manual cleanup
  06-13 18:37  a day plus of fine tuning and pushing numbers around

kiss_rdb_test/readme.md, after:

## why number scheme?

see [#010.6] for an in-depth discussion of what regression-friendliness is
and why we care about it. coming up with a "number scheme" at this level is
our manifestation of regression-friendliness at this level.



## numbering scheme

  - 0001-2499  storage adapter support (1250)
  - 2500-4999  storage adapters (3750)
  - 5000-9999  modality adaptations (7500)


## storage support

  - 0001-1249  models
  - 1250-2499  magnetics


## storage adapters

py -c 'print(tuple(round(2500 + (2500/16) + (2500 * (i/8))) for i in range(0, 8)))'

  - markdown-table (because lol) (2656)
  - rec (first because respect for elders) (2969)
  - csv (should be simplest, dumb) (3281)
  - json (widely supported) (3594)
  - xml (stable) (3906)
  - toml (was first) (4219)
  - yaml (fallback) (4531)
  - eno (dream) (4844)


## modality adaptations

py -c 'print(tuple(round(5000 + (5000/14) + (5000 * (i/7))) for i in range(0, 7)))'
py -c 'print(tuple(round(5000 + (5000 * (i/7))) for i in range(0, 8)))'

5357 API
5715
6071 niCLI
6429
6786 iCLI
7500 web/React-ish
8214 desktop
8929 mobile
9643 secrets of the universe




## (document-meta)

  - #history-A.1
  - #birth
