modality-agnostic-doc/README.md, before:

# modality agnositc modeling

this is a relatively simple idea that has been developed elsewhere.

much of the requisite code is already in place, but needs to be re-housed
here from elsewhere.

this document exists as a placeholder to track the intention (wish)
of abstracting these assets in these terms, so that they can be referred
to.

always keep in mind this library can be kept very "pure" because it itself
does not have to worry about satisfying (directly) particular modalities,
only in modeling interfaces for this purpose.




## <a name="node-table"></a>the node table

(this table is explained at [\[#002\]] using the node table.)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content
|---------------------------|:-----:|-
|[#511.4]                   |       | the previous but plus styler
|[#511.3]                   |       | provision: expression with yield
|[#510.8]                   |       | track copy-pasted implementations of lazy
|[#510.7]                   |       | namespace for specfic instances
|[#510.6]                   |       | track custom memoizy decorators
|[#510.5]                   |       | track custom dereferencers
|[#510.4]                   |       | track custom memoizers
|[#510.3]                   |       | track custom states
|[#510.2]                   |       | track blank states
|[#509.2]                   |       | [one thing in it]
|[#509]                     |       | [listener via expectations]
|[#508]                     | #hole |
|[#507.2]                   |       | where we want strong typing
|[#507]                     |       | (internal tracking/small issues)
|[#505]                     | #hole |
|[#504]                     | #open | magnetics/command-via-command-stream
|[#503]                     | #open | magnetics/command-via-parameter-stream
|[#502]                     | #open | magnetics/parameter-via-definition
|[#501]                     |       | (placeholder for this readme)




## (document-meta)

  - #born.

Commit message:

4/4: No more sync-side entity-mapping: the world ((1072))
Melt all EDIT's/todo's.

(times)

  07-27 15:09  refactored one producer script to look the new way
        22:55  feeling overwhelmed. but we finally have a clear
               objective: ignore CLI's we don't like. Ignore real
               life syncing. Ignore incorrect UI docs. All we are
               doing is trying to eliminate the near-side stream mapping
  07-28 15:59  that one case that traverses a dummy producer script
  08-07 01:08  after a long break, one file passing. one hour later zz
  08-08 17:50  begin hugo docs
  08-09 17:29  starting another producer script
  08-10 01:44  finished one more test file
  08-11 01:22  start new producer script
  08-12 15:38  finished the first syncing case
  08-13 12:17  begin file
  08-19 12:12  ok try again after a long break
  08-22 16:08  mini-milestone: for the first time,
               a whole directory of tests passing
        22:14  begin graph-viz for DTF
        22:44  proof of concept working
  09-16 18:16  the most difficult yet test file is passing. 9-19 hbd akmg
  09-22 20:52  file 2 in this directory
        21:48  one more test file
        22:17  one more file
        23:31  data pipes tests all passing
        09:19  all green
  09-24 02:09  now

modality-agnostic-doc/README.md, after:

# modality agnositc modeling

this is a relatively simple idea that has been developed elsewhere.

much of the requisite code is already in place, but needs to be re-housed
here from elsewhere.

this document exists as a placeholder to track the intention (wish)
of abstracting these assets in these terms, so that they can be referred
to.

always keep in mind this library can be kept very "pure" because it itself
does not have to worry about satisfying (directly) particular modalities,
only in modeling interfaces for this purpose.




## <a name="node-table"></a>the node table

(this table is explained at [\[#002\]] using the node table.)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content
|---------------------------|:-----:|-
|[#511.4]                   |       | the previous but plus styler
|[#511.3]                   |       | provision: expression with yield
|[#510.10]                  |       | track "module via path"
|[#510.9]                   |       | track mutexers (1 at writing)
|[#510.8]                   |       | track copy-pasted implementations of lazy
|[#510.7]                   |       | namespace for specfic instances
|[#510.6]                   |       | track custom memoizy decorators
|[#510.5]                   |       | track custom dereferencers
|[#510.4]                   |       | track custom memoizers
|[#510.3]                   |       | track custom states
|[#510.2]                   |       | track blank states
|[#509.2]                   |       | [one thing in it]
|[#509]                     |       | [listener via expectations]
|[#508]                     | #hole |
|[#507.G]                   | #open | idiomize something for the test platform
|[#507.F]                   | #open | integrate this with teardown so the memory is reclaimed
|[#507.E]                   | #open | what is this idea
|[#507.D]                   | #open | gross violation of python internals
|[#507.C]                   | #open | remove this redundancy
|[#507.2]                   |       | where we want strong typing
|[#507]                     |       | (internal tracking/small issues)
|[#505]                     | #hole |
|[#504]                     | #open | magnetics/command-via-command-stream
|[#503]                     | #open | magnetics/command-via-parameter-stream
|[#502]                     | #open | magnetics/parameter-via-definition
|[#501]                     |       | (placeholder for this readme)




## (document-meta)

  - #born.
