game-server-doc/README.md, before:

# game server

## objective & scope

  1. acquire python proficiency (hipe)

  1. experiment with some architecture ideas for
     a modular microservice architecture

  1. at first offer (then explore exisiting) architecture
     that matches some or more of our requirements/interests (below)
     for chat bots

  1. support text-based games along our (again) requirements/interests




## requirements/interests

   - yer basic client/server architecture; targeting multiplayer online
     games (text-based at first) but that could have broader applicability,
     for example to run a chat stack (like slack)

   - it would be great if the underlying architecure were an empty shell
     with little functionality of its own so:

   - a plugin architecture (or if you prefer: a dependency injection
     framework) so that the interesting work happens in plugins.

   - what would be *really* cool is if the plugins (modules/adapters)
     could each be written in their own language (developer's choice)




## contributing - running tests

run one test file

    python3 game_server_test/test_10_basics.py


run the whole test suite

    python3 -m unittest discover game_server_test




## <a name="regression-order">contributing - writing tests

when lots of things break all at once (for example, during a massive
re-architecting), it's useful to be able to narrow the search space
quickly, to determine at what layer of abstraction you should focus on
first to narrow down what is causing the ostensible problem.

it burns up time trying to figure out why a very detailed, high-level
test is broken if it's something fundamental and lowlevel that's the issue.
this is why the author feels strongly about "regression order".

(#todo this is documented in [tmx] yikes)




## sub-node table (experiment)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content
|---------------------------|:-----:|-
|[#006.B]                   |       | (in code, track gripes about `argparse`)




## (document-meta)

  - this document is identified by `:[#006]` (without the colon)

Commit message:

(-12    hello world for CLI (no parameters) (43))
  - in order to allow different shaped commands (function or class-
    based), we push the discovery of the parameter stream into
    a factory-pattern constructor now, hence no more passing of
    this stubbed “parameter stream”

  - push memoizer up (#wish)

(0.075s)

game-server-doc/README.md, after:

# game server

## objective & scope

  1. acquire python proficiency (hipe)

  1. experiment with some architecture ideas for
     a modular microservice architecture

  1. at first offer (then explore exisiting) architecture
     that matches some or more of our requirements/interests (below)
     for chat bots

  1. support text-based games along our (again) requirements/interests




## requirements/interests

   - yer basic client/server architecture; targeting multiplayer online
     games (text-based at first) but that could have broader applicability,
     for example to run a chat stack (like slack)

   - it would be great if the underlying architecure were an empty shell
     with little functionality of its own so:

   - a plugin architecture (or if you prefer: a dependency injection
     framework) so that the interesting work happens in plugins.

   - what would be *really* cool is if the plugins (modules/adapters)
     could each be written in their own language (developer's choice)




## contributing - "installation"

you know the project is "installed" correctly if you can run the tests
in [the next section](#running-tests). (the tests take less than a second
to run on my 5 years old laptop.) there are no requirements other than
a specific version of python.

at first we did not use virtualenv, we just installed some python 3 from
our package manager. at writing we just started using virtualenv. also we
don't remember what version we had had but we are now using (again at
writing) latest stable which is:

    $ source ./venv/bin/activate
    $ python --version
    Python 3.6.4

eventually we want to formalize this in some versioned way but we don't
yet know what that way is. (#open [#007.C])




## <a name='running-tests'></a>contributing - running tests

run one test file

    python3 game_server_test/test_10_basics.py


run the whole test suite

    python3 -m unittest discover game_server_test


(what i actually do now is say `python` not `python3` (and use
virtualenv), and i set up these aliases:)

    alias py='python -W error::Warning::0'
    alias pud='py -m unittest discover'




## <a name="regression-order">contributing - writing tests

when lots of things break all at once (for example, during a massive
re-architecting), it's useful to be able to narrow the search space
quickly, to determine at what layer of abstraction you should focus on
first to narrow down what is causing the ostensible problem.

it burns up time trying to figure out why a very detailed, high-level
test is broken if it's something fundamental and lowlevel that's the issue.
this is why the author feels strongly about "regression order".

(#todo this is documented in [tmx] yikes)




## sub-node table (experiment)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content
|---------------------------|:-----:|-
|[#006.B]                   |       | (in code, track gripes about `argparse`)




## (document-meta)

  - this document is identified by `:[#006]` (without the colon)
