tag-lyfe-doc/README.md, before:

# tag lyfe

## objective & scope

  - à la twitter, imagine a collection that is marked up with "ordinary" tags:

    1. `tweet one - #metoo #basta`
    1. `what a great game #fifa2018`
    1. `rose mcgowan #metoo autobiagraphy 😭✊ #fierce`

  - we can search for all items that have one particular 


(oblique snippet that will be moved to somewhere like `filter_by_tags.py`:
this is for making informed decisions, and then later being able to
justifying how you made those deicisions in a straightforward, reproducible,
machine-readble way.)




## sub-node table (experiment)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content |
|---------------------------|:-----:|-----------------------------------------|
|                   #708.2  |       | (this one script, cross-sub-project coverage)
|                   #708    |       | (external tracking)
|                   #707.B  | #open | clean up these placeholders
|                   #707    |       | (internal tracking)
|                [\[#702\]] |       | due dilligence on parser generators
|                   #701    |       | (this readme)




[\[#702\]]: 002-parser-generators-dilligence.md




## (document-meta)

  - #born.

Commit message:

(-tag-lyfe.18 tag lyfe query: spike use of TatSu (begin grammars) (10))
Synopsis: parses {and|or} for queries
  - no recursion yet
  - enforce all one or the other

Discussion: this was a long time coming for whatever reason.
  hopefully the ball is now rolling.


(times)
  07-05 04:54  ok, gonna watch a 45 minute video from PyCon 2018
  07-06 04:02  resuming watching 2018 beazly talk (9:20 in)
  07-08 01:35  BEGIN so we decided we are not gonna finish the paper
               by Laurent and Mens (too hard). so now we begin on
               reading about 竜 TatSu
        02:09  upgraded to python 3.7 because [thing] supports it
               everything broke
        03:13  OK, we have determined that
               sakin agac works OK on python 3.7
        03:28  sub-BEGIN: tatsu read (again)
  07-10 14:19  BEGIN - look at opening a pull request for beautiful soup
        14:53  (finished adding to existing bug reports for bs4)
  07-11 01:00  BEGIN let's do this
        01:38  ok, beginning to bring in the stuff
        01:49  amazing. own grammar for simple tag compiled
        03:01  END looks good - looking at exception stack . zz
  07-12 18:55  (location: sweetwaters) let's identify our main issues
  07-13 22:20  for a little bit - begin see if stop at garbage
  07-14 11:10  BEGIN
  07-15 00:44  BEGIN began again - about to build insulated model
        06:57  END. happy with how parsing looks .. need testing now. zz
  07-21 05:11  BEGIN again after a long break
        07:19  sleep
        14:18  tests passing

tag-lyfe-doc/README.md, after:

# tag lyfe

## objective & scope

  - à la twitter, imagine a collection that is marked up with "ordinary" tags:

    1. `tweet one - #metoo #basta`
    1. `what a great game #fifa2018`
    1. `rose mcgowan #metoo autobiagraphy 😭✊ #fierce`

  - we can search for all items that have one particular 


(oblique snippet that will be moved to somewhere like `filter_by_tags.py`:
this is for making informed decisions, and then later being able to
justifying how you made those deicisions in a straightforward, reproducible,
machine-readble way.)




## sub-node table (experiment)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content |
|---------------------------|:-----:|-----------------------------------------|
|                   #708.3  |       | (this one coverpoint, referenced in [ma]
|                   #708.2  |       | (this one script, cross-sub-project coverage)
|                   #708    |       | (external tracking)
|                   #707    |       | (internal tracking)
|                   #704    |       | experimental conventions
|                   #703    |       | soft notes
|                [\[#702\]] |       | due dilligence on parser generators
|                   #701    |       | (this readme)




[\[#702\]]: 002-parser-generators-dilligence.md




## (document-meta)

  - #born.
