pho-doc/documents/403-broad-objectives.md, before:

---
title: "sakin agac - broad objectives"
date: 2018-04-06T18:11:58-04:00
---
# "sakin agac"

## overview: broad objectives

the broad objective of this subproject (codenamed "pho" then "TMX notebook"
for now) is to accomplish "publishing" on these terms:

  - the main essential function of the blog is accomplished without a
    "backend" — it's just static assets.

  - must run just as well locally as remotely (i.e it must look the same
    when being served on your laptop as it does on the internet).

  - no application server to worry about (other than e.g. nginx).
    even after phase 1 when we might get complicated with CMS-like
    authentication to (for example) manage view privileges on certain
    pages, we always want to be able to fall back on this provision that
    static, publicly viewable assets are always served simply with no
    "moving parts".

  - in phase 1, "writes" to the "blog" happen exclusively on the
    contributor's workstation (no web-based editing in phase 1).
    (and imagine a pandoc-like pipeline here, or just a jekyll/
    github-flavored markdown thing..)

  - VCS-based history: the content of the single "static website" can be
    sourced from _multiple_ collections of documents, where each such
    collection is its _own_ SCM/VCS-managed tree (imagine git but assume
    hg, darcs etc; a plug-in architecture — don't hard-code for git).
    possibly post phase-1 we want to integrate a sort of "view change
    hisory" into the UI whose backend leans _soley_ on the VCS.




## ramblings about "philosophy" and goals for the user experience

  - whenever relevant, we want the UX to be "familar" ("intuitive") for
    a particular target audience. I am
    reminded of what _ruby_ creator Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto said of ruby
    and "the element of least surprise" - he said something like, "it's
    about _my_ surpise, not your surprise". here we would want users of
    wikis, users of jekyll etc to have things "just work" they way they
    expect (but for at first a pared down subset of their features).


in terms of content (and the user experience, sort of):

  - imagine a plain old tree of documents in readable text, (that are for
    example but not necessarily markdown), that are versioned using an
    existing SCM (that is probably not necessarily git).
  - content authors can check out the content repository, make edits
    locally as straightforwardly with their own favorite text editors.
  - content authors can preview their changes semi-styled locally with
    (e.g) the github-flavored markdown ruby gem.
  - one day it would be nice for content authors to be able to see a
    faithful preview with something like a static site generator.
  - imagine different view stuff as being user-configurable, like, for
    example, let an `ikiwiki`-style syle continue to look like one or
    not, based on a cookie.
  - imagine if github-flavored markdown was truly available to the
    enduser being not on github (for example, locally).


in terms of technology:

  - a "polyglot" approach would be nice, where we can bring in the
    appropriate solution for the job regardless of the language it is
    written in. (for example, when targeting "github flavored markdown",
    we will use their ruby in our pipeline, while not needing our core
    to be ruby itself.)

  - a lightweight core that acts as a sort of "dependency injection
    framework". in the spirit of so many other things, all of its
    useful functionality would derive from its sub-systems.
      - "git for journaling" would be a module.
      - "markdown for rendering" would be a module. etc.

  - be able to run on heroku from the start (in part because of
    [the][heroku5] [discipline][heroku3] it will force on us).

  - this lightweight core (and its plugins) would need to be able to
    operate from the command line as well, for authoring. (more on
    this at [essential functions](#essential-functions).)

  - it would be folly not to at least consider thinking of this as
    a static site generator with a web interface - and give serious
    consideration to leveraging this approach to some degree that's
    not overly absurd..




## competitive analysis

  - this is similar in spirit (but not content) to the
    [counterpart feature tree][wikijs2] of wiki.js.
    we do a "dim sum"-like assesment of similar-space alternatives
    in this dedicated [sibling document][sibling1].




## <a name='essential-functions'></a>essential functions

(this is VERY rough, but it's just a startingpoint)

  - convert a source representation to a target representation (i.e
    markdown to HTML). specifically, this "function" should be able to
    work with a file (e.g path) as input, and a stream of bytes as output
    (string). pursuant to one of our essential design objectives, this
    function should be equally exposed from web as well as CLI.

  - "watch" for changes on a whole directory tree (from terminal only).
    (look at jekyll etc). build pipeline.

  - use "git log" and "git blame" (from terminal) as an inspiration for
    the user experience on web.

  - imagine "web" as "GUI" if you like. imagine mobile.




[wikijs2]: https://github.com/Requarks/wiki
[heroku5]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/architecting-apps
[heroku3]: https://12factor.net/
[sibling1]: 404-wiki-app-dim-sum.md




## (document-meta)

  - #born.

Commit message:

content(pho): TMX Notebook publishes its first content ((1569))
Discussion: we didn’t literally “publish” the content, but this is
the first time we have an end result that feels finished

Overall we're very happy with it so far. We're worried about how
well it will scale out to larger and larger trees, but that's what
later is for.

Also:
- Sunsetted old symlinks & a config file used by old hugo site
- discovered another difference in hugo vs pelican markdown

(times)
  02-06 20:51  improve/fix opening issues so it's actually usable
               for practical use cases
  02-07 12:01  change procedural mish-mash into modern state machine
        20:32  just finished rewrite issues as FSA. now: expose
               interstitial lines to the client of the collection
               for parsing as “directives”
  02-08 05:09  maybe done with issues
        05:25  begin looking for help screen bug
        05:40  fixed it, have patch
        05:42  begin expose reindex as CLI command
        13:44  finished reindex as CLI
        18:21  finished --EID option
        20:45  44 documents look good, now we really want the
               '--remember' feature of pho issues
  02-09 03:29  it's working, it’s now “fun” to use
        14:24  done structuring & editing content & passing tests
.

pho-doc/documents/403-broad-objectives.md, after:

---
title: "sakin agac - broad objectives"
date: 2018-04-06T18:11:58-04:00
---

(This document predates its current host project by 14 months. It started
as the README for a now dissolved & re-absorbed project that was essentially
"TMX Notebook" before we realized that's what it was; at which point we
proto-fitted to this project. Although not on the surface, in deep form this
will read as highly redundant with the current README of the project
(the previous document).)



## overview: broad objectives

the broad objective of this subproject (codenamed "pho" then "TMX notebook"
for now) is to accomplish "publishing" on these terms:

  - the main essential function of the blog is accomplished without a
    "backend" — it's just static assets.

  - must run just as well locally as remotely (i.e it must look the same
    when being served on your laptop as it does on the internet).

  - no application server to worry about (other than e.g. nginx).
    even after phase 1 when we might get complicated with CMS-like
    authentication to (for example) manage view privileges on certain
    pages, we always want to be able to fall back on this provision that
    static, publicly viewable assets are always served simply with no
    "moving parts".

  - in phase 1, "writes" to the "blog" happen exclusively on the
    contributor's workstation (no web-based editing in phase 1).
    (and imagine a pandoc-like pipeline here, or just a jekyll/
    github-flavored markdown thing..)

  - VCS-based history: the content of the single "static website" can be
    sourced from _multiple_ collections of documents, where each such
    collection is its _own_ SCM/VCS-managed tree (imagine git but assume
    hg, darcs etc; a plug-in architecture — don't hard-code for git).
    possibly post phase-1 we want to integrate a sort of "view change
    hisory" into the UI whose backend leans _soley_ on the VCS.




## ramblings about "philosophy" and goals for the user experience

  - whenever relevant, we want the UX to be "familar" ("intuitive") for
    a particular target audience. I am
    reminded of what _ruby_ creator Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto said of ruby
    and "the element of least surprise" - he said something like, "it's
    about _my_ surpise, not your surprise". here we would want users of
    wikis, users of jekyll etc to have things "just work" they way they
    expect (but for at first a pared down subset of their features).


in terms of content (and the user experience, sort of):

  - imagine a plain old tree of documents in readable text, (that are for
    example but not necessarily markdown), that are versioned using an
    existing SCM (that is probably not necessarily git).
  - content authors can check out the content repository, make edits
    locally as straightforwardly with their own favorite text editors.
  - content authors can preview their changes semi-styled locally with
    (e.g) the github-flavored markdown ruby gem.
  - one day it would be nice for content authors to be able to see a
    faithful preview with something like a static site generator.
  - imagine different view stuff as being user-configurable, like, for
    example, let an `ikiwiki`-style syle continue to look like one or
    not, based on a cookie.
  - imagine if github-flavored markdown was truly available to the
    enduser being not on github (for example, locally).


in terms of technology:

  - a "polyglot" approach would be nice, where we can bring in the
    appropriate solution for the job regardless of the language it is
    written in. (for example, when targeting "github flavored markdown",
    we will use their ruby in our pipeline, while not needing our core
    to be ruby itself.)

  - a lightweight core that acts as a sort of "dependency injection
    framework". in the spirit of so many other things, all of its
    useful functionality would derive from its sub-systems.
      - "git for journaling" would be a module.
      - "markdown for rendering" would be a module. etc.

  - be able to run on heroku from the start (in part because of
    [the][heroku5] [discipline][heroku3] it will force on us).

  - this lightweight core (and its plugins) would need to be able to
    operate from the command line as well, for authoring. (more on
    this at [essential functions](#essential-functions).)

  - it would be folly not to at least consider thinking of this as
    a static site generator with a web interface - and give serious
    consideration to leveraging this approach to some degree that's
    not overly absurd..




## competitive analysis

  - this is similar in spirit (but not content) to the
    [counterpart feature tree][wikijs2] of wiki.js.
    we do a "dim sum"-like assesment of similar-space alternatives
    in this dedicated [sibling document][sibling1].




## <a name='essential-functions'></a>essential functions

(this is VERY rough, but it's just a startingpoint)

  - convert a source representation to a target representation (i.e
    markdown to HTML). specifically, this "function" should be able to
    work with a file (e.g path) as input, and a stream of bytes as output
    (string). pursuant to one of our essential design objectives, this
    function should be equally exposed from web as well as CLI.

  - "watch" for changes on a whole directory tree (from terminal only).
    (look at jekyll etc). build pipeline.

  - use "git log" and "git blame" (from terminal) as an inspiration for
    the user experience on web.

  - imagine "web" as "GUI" if you like. imagine mobile.




[wikijs2]: https://github.com/Requarks/wiki
[heroku5]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/architecting-apps
[heroku3]: https://12factor.net/
[sibling1]: 404-wiki-app-dim-sum.md




## (document-meta)

  - #born.
