pho-doc/documents/409.3.file-watchers-dim-sum.md, before:

# the dim-sum table of file-monitoring tools


Here is how we populated the table:

```bash
curl https://anarc.at/blog/2019-11-20-file-monitoring-tools/ > x.html
dp scrape x.html div.toc 'ol:nth-of-type(1)>li:nth-of-type(1)>ol:nth-of-type(1)>li' 'a:nth-of-type(1)'
```
We did the rest "by hand". Syncing would be nice, but that is out of scope
for now. but #open [#437].


| Name                | Comment
|:--------------------|---
|caretaker            | #linux-specific arch linux
|chokidar             | #maybe #language:js
|direvent             | #linux-specific GNU thing, no mention of OSX
|entr                 | sounds hacky from desc
|fluffy               | #linux-specific
|fswatch              | #LOOK OS X
|gamin                | #linux-specific no commandline
|incron               | #linux-specific
|inoticoming          | #linux-specific
|inotify-hookable     | #language:perl, ..
|inotify-tools        | #linux-specific
|systemd .path units  | #linux-specific
|watchexec            | #LOOK
|watchman             | #LOOK but see sad news




# this worked

```bash
watchexec --verbose --no-shell --postpone  -w emn-my-working-directory --filter '*/some-dir/file-1.txt' --debounce 15 emn/some-file.py foo bar baz
```



# (document-meta)

  - #born

Commit message:

test(pho): begin “watch” command ((1475))
Discussion: Create our first watch adapter.

This doesn’t get as far as sending the proper message over the TCP/IP
wire to the server, but it’s a big enough sweep of work that we wanted
to commit an intermediate snapshot.

Spike our rough sketch of how we envisioned this going with our
use of dictionaries and JSON to wrap up function-call-like requests
and then responses (RPC lol).

(times)
  18:31  begin make a rough prototype of an fswatch thing
  21:43  woke from nap, make version check for watchexec
  23:22  finished way over-engineered version check of watchexec
  00:46  happy with the watch command.
         about to flesh-out the “connect” command a lot more
  04:13  did great, pinging server
  12:28  now
.

pho-doc/documents/409.3.file-watchers-dim-sum.md, after:

# the dim-sum table of file-monitoring tools


Here is how we populated the table:

```bash
curl https://anarc.at/blog/2019-11-20-file-monitoring-tools/ > x.html
dp scrape x.html div.toc 'ol:nth-of-type(1)>li:nth-of-type(1)>ol:nth-of-type(1)>li' 'a:nth-of-type(1)'
```
We did the rest "by hand". Syncing would be nice, but that is out of scope
for now. but #open [#437].


| Name                | Comment
|:--------------------|---
|caretaker            | #linux-specific arch linux
|chokidar             | #maybe #language:js
|direvent             | #linux-specific GNU thing, no mention of OSX
|entr                 | sounds hacky from desc
|fluffy               | #linux-specific
|fswatch              | #LOOK OS X
|gamin                | #linux-specific no commandline
|incron               | #linux-specific
|inoticoming          | #linux-specific
|inotify-hookable     | #language:perl, ..
|inotify-tools        | #linux-specific
|systemd .path units  | #linux-specific
|watchexec            | #LOOK
|watchman             | #LOOK but see sad news




# this worked:

```bash
watchexec --verbose --no-shell --postpone  -w emn-my-working-directory --filter '*/some-dir/file-1.txt' --debounce 15 emn/some-file.py foo bar baz
```

We installed watchexce on OS X with:

```bash
brew install watchexec
```

as described in [its documentation][1].



[1]: https://github.com/watchexec/watchexec


# (document-meta)

  - #born
