pho-doc/documents/409.5.pseudocode-for-service-for-editing.md, before:

# the five points technique:

(This is a summary of [#010.8].)

1. write out the whole algo in pseudocode
2. figure out how the algo breaks up into "magnetics" (functions) and maybe models
3. implement each magnetic in its own commit with its own tests
4. integrate all the magnetics together, covered and exposed as an API function
5. integrate with an interface (CLI)



# the algo

    You hit save on a file. One file. A single file.
    Assume the directory was being watched. For now we don't know how or why.
    The watcher instance (from a specific "watcher adapter") notifies the
    "watch controller" of the file having been changed (passing it an absolute
    path and a verb like 'updated'). (The path *must* be an absolute path).

    The watch controller runs it through a bunch of "case patterns" to find
    what case (if any) *first* mathches this file. Order matters.

    A case pattern can be (for example):
      - a specific filename
      - a pattern that matches filenames
        (maybe just entry maybe abs path maybe just ext)
      - OR LOOK AT THIS: a function that does arbitrary stuff like open the
        file and read lines from it YIKES

    For now, if the file doesn't match a case pattern, let's assume that the
    watch controller "emits a notice" (exactly what this means is not defined
    for now) and moves on.

    Otherwise (and the file *did* match a case pattern),
    Let's imagine:
      - the file might be part of one of our kiss-rdb formats (an eno file)
      - thie file might be markdown but the variant of the target SSG

    But that's getting ahead of ourselves:
    Every case pattern points to *one* "formal action". A formal action can be
    pointed to by multiple case patterns, but every case pattern has exactly
    one formal action.

    There will probably be different types of actions, but for now the only
    type of action we can think of is a "build plan". (This is probably the
    "unit of work" design pattern.)

    We want build plans to have some degree of reusability but we can't think
    that abstractly yet.

    Now, if the watch controller had de-bouncing, we would wait for the
    de-bounce time limit to expire (does it work the one way or the other
    way?).

    Let's imagine build plans are defined in terms of "stages". For now,
    let's imagine that stages are basically a list of names (strings):
    The names are aribtary and defined by the business, but they exist in
    a discrete sequence. And each build-plan defines sub-actions to fulfill
    that particular stage. One build plan may have intentions for multiple
    stages, but it must define each of its actions in terms of which stage
    it occurs in. Stages are like calling "synchronize" on threads: the
    actions of one stage are guaranteed not to be invoked until the actions
    of all previous stages have been executed.

    This mean that every build plan must be defined in context of the same
    "business lexicon" (of which the list of stages is a part).

    We think that's it. As a pleasant surprise, we hopefully don't need to
    mess with having any watches on any directories/files to get the SSG(s)
    to act because we will call them explicitly.



# (document-meta)

  - #born

Commit message:

test(pho): spike config components ((+10=1470))
Discussion: after three weeks of a painful curses detour, we’re allowing
ourselves to spike a little more.

Something we didn’t foresee in the design phase, it seems like our
SSG “service” may “simply” be a careful composition of a bunch of these
“config components” arranged together. How true this is is exactly what
we’re about to find out next…

Reminder:
    alias l="pho listen"
    alias c="pho connect"
    l pho_test/examples/example_1000_generation_conf.py \
      -c main_pooligan_gen_controller.list

(times)
  12-16 11:41  ok really start get values back
        12:02  finished code sketch of to_form_value recursive, 3 min
               later worked, 6 min later ok we are happy with sending
               arbitrary requests and getting arbitrary responses
  12-17 00:37  going to write out an imagined build pipeline off a
               config and TDD it and not have it part of the
               client/server yet, just to get to pelican
        11:28  we have a clear idea of this “directory controller”
        14:42  happy with executions of commands on config components.
               but we re-architect this to move it out of SSG adapter
               support and into “config components” and full rewrite
               (reassemble line-by-line) to remove lots of redundancy
               around “execute command” in every component class
  12-18 07:29  put config file in examples, write up justification
        12:56  gonna close it off now
.

pho-doc/documents/409.5.pseudocode-for-service-for-editing.md, after:

# the five points technique:

(This is a summary of [#010.8].)

1. write out the whole algo in pseudocode
2. figure out how the algo breaks up into "magnetics" (functions) and maybe models
3. implement each magnetic in its own commit with its own tests
4. integrate all the magnetics together, covered and exposed as an API function
5. integrate with an interface (CLI)



# the algo

    You hit save on a file. One file. A single file.
    Assume the directory was being watched. For now we don't know how or why.
    (Probably it's being watched by `watchexec` listed in [#409.3])
    The watcher instance (from a specific "watcher adapter") notifies the
    "watch controller" of the file having been changed (passing it an absolute
    path and a verb like 'updated'). (The path *must* be an absolute path).

    (In practice the "watch controller" is a microservice running locally.)

    The watch controller runs it through a bunch of "case patterns" to find
    what case (if any) *first* matches this file. Order matters.

    A case pattern can be (for example):
      - a specific filename
      - a pattern that matches filenames
        (maybe just entry maybe abs path maybe just ext)
      - OR LOOK AT THIS: a function that does arbitrary stuff like open the
        file and read lines from it YIKES

    For now, if the file doesn't match a case pattern, let's assume that the
    watch controller "emits a notice" (exactly what this means is not defined
    for now) and moves on.

    Otherwise (and the file *did* match a case pattern),
    Let's imagine:
      - the file might be part of one of our kiss-rdb formats (an eno file)
      - thie file might be markdown but the variant of the target SSG

    But that's getting ahead of ourselves:
    Every case pattern points to *one* "formal action". A formal action can be
    pointed to by multiple case patterns, but every case pattern has exactly
    one formal action.

    There will probably be different types of actions, but for now the only
    type of action we can think of is a "build plan". (This is probably the
    "unit of work" design pattern.)

    We want build plans to have some degree of reusability but we can't think
    that abstractly yet.

    Now, if the watch controller had de-bouncing, we would wait for the
    de-bounce time limit to expire (does it work the one way or the other
    way?).

    Let's imagine build plans are defined in terms of "stages". For now,
    let's imagine that stages are basically a list of names (strings):
    The names are aribtary and defined by the business, but they exist in
    a discrete sequence. And each build-plan defines sub-actions to fulfill
    that particular stage. One build plan may have intentions for multiple
    stages, but it must define each of its actions in terms of which stage
    it occurs in. Stages are like calling "synchronize" on threads: the
    actions of one stage are guaranteed not to be invoked until the actions
    of all previous stages have been executed.

    This mean that every build plan must be defined in context of the same
    "business lexicon" (of which the list of stages is a part).

    We think that's it. As a pleasant surprise, we hopefully don't need to
    mess with having any watches on any directories/files to get the SSG(s)
    to act because we will call them explicitly.



# (document-meta)

  - #born
