pho-doc/documents/409.2.pelican-notes.md, before:

# TEMPO put me somewhere


`<h1>` headers are generated so consider using only `<h2>` headers and below




## Ideas for how to use pelican

WOW maybe content path can be a single file




## Tiny things learned

watcher is called just for warnings



|Estimated|Actual|Start|End|Title|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|00|00|10:02|10:03|Quickstart
|00|00|00:00|10:04|Installing Pelican
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Writing content
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Publish your site
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Settings
|00|00|11:08|00:00|Creating themes
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Plugins
|00|00|00:00|00:00|pelican-themes
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Importing an existing site
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Tips
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Contributing and feedback guidelines
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Pelican internals
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Some history about Pelican
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Release history




## How We Installed Pelican

According to [the pelican documentation][url1]:

```bash
pip install "pelican[markdown]"
mkdir pho-doc/pelican-experiment
cd !$<tab>
pelican-quickstart
```

Then we answered a bunch of questions.

Then we wrote the example page.

Then to generate content:

```bash
pelican content
```

Then to start the local pelican webserver:

```bash
pelican --listen
```

More better:
```bash
pelican --listen --autoreload
```

(Note that pelican didn't get added to our requirements.txt until more
than a a month later, at #history-B.4. Also at the same history point there
is now an invoke task for patching pelican. But this is liable to change
soon.)

Single page (specify path to output file):
```bash
pelican --write-selected output/posts/my-post-title.html
```



# Quick notes on themes

bootstrap
cebong (newsprint looking)
dev-random2 (kind of funny)
flex (adaptive)
foundation-default-colors (hm)
frantic (lol)
jesuislibre (lol)
mg (adaptive)
mnmlist
pelican-blue (adaptive)
twenty-html5up (fancy design)
voce (design, adaptive)




## Imagine patching pelican

- pelukan/settings.py:592: lists parameters not in ":25"
- similar to above: not in same but used: 'AUTHOR', 'TIMEZONE'
- pelukan/utils.py:854: not `f.endswith`, use splitext.
  Take whatever other work out of the loop
- pelukan/contents.py:78 "XXX Split all the [..] there is too much here."



[url1]: https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/quickstart.html



## (document-meta)
  - #history-B.4
  - #born

Commit message:

feat(pho): introduce “strict nav tree” pelican plugin ((+6=1570))
Discussion: central to the “pho” project is generating documents with
usable navigational elements that will scale out to arbitrary
document tree depth

(times)
  02-01 00:30  Begin reading how to make pelican plugins
        01:52  We have an awful idea for how to hack this for now…
        14:06  begin hack stub data into pages
        14:16  Learn we can't hack "pages" in this way,
               gotta change to articles
        14:43  finished changing pages to articles (in working
               playground), now change nav
        16:51  very happy with mocked up hierarchical nav… now to begin
               to understand data model and jinja rendering plan
        19:41  finished rough draft of template w/o visual conf
  02-02 21:43  spent all day on making the unit tests real
.

pho-doc/documents/409.2.pelican-notes.md, after:

# TEMPO put me somewhere


`<h1>` headers are generated so consider using only `<h2>` headers and below




## Ideas for how to use pelican

WOW maybe content path can be a single file




## Tiny things learned

watcher is called just for warnings



|Estimated|Actual|Start|End|Title|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|00|00|10:02|10:03|Quickstart
|00|00|00:00|10:04|Installing Pelican
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Writing content
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Publish your site
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Settings
|00|00|11:08|00:00|Creating themes
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Plugins
|00|00|00:00|00:00|pelican-themes
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Importing an existing site
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Tips
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Contributing and feedback guidelines
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Pelican internals
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Some history about Pelican
|00|00|00:00|00:00|Release history




## How We Installed Pelican

According to [the pelican documentation][url1]:

```bash
pip install "pelican[markdown]"
mkdir pho-doc/pelican-experiment
cd !$<tab>
pelican-quickstart
```

Then we answered a bunch of questions.

Then we wrote the example page.

Then to generate content:

```bash
pelican content
```

(NOTE the above term `content` is *not* a pelican subcommand; it's your
directory called "content" in your current working directory.)



Then to start the local pelican webserver:

```bash
pelican --listen
```

More better:
```bash
pelican --listen --autoreload
```

(Note that pelican didn't get added to our requirements.txt until more
than a a month later, at #history-B.4. Also at the same history point there
is now an invoke task for patching pelican. But this is liable to change
soon.)

Single page (specify path to output file):
```bash
pelican --write-selected output/posts/my-post-title.html
```



# Quick notes on themes

bootstrap
cebong (newsprint looking)
dev-random2 (kind of funny)
flex (adaptive)
foundation-default-colors (hm)
frantic (lol)
jesuislibre (lol)
mg (adaptive)
mnmlist
pelican-blue (adaptive)
twenty-html5up (fancy design)
voce (design, adaptive)




## Imagine patching pelican

- pelukan/settings.py:592: lists parameters not in ":25"
- similar to above: not in same but used: 'AUTHOR', 'TIMEZONE'
- pelukan/utils.py:854: not `f.endswith`, use splitext.
  Take whatever other work out of the loop
- pelukan/contents.py:78 "XXX Split all the [..] there is too much here."



## Reading notes for making a pelican plugin

wow how does PLUGIN_PATHS work




[url1]: https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/quickstart.html



## (document-meta)
  - #history-B.4
  - #born
