pho-doc/documents/881.3-roadmaps.md, before:

---
title: "roadmaps"
date: 2020-10-05T23:00:00-04:00
excerpt: "classify other roadmaps"
---

| Born       | Id       | File                                         | Tags   |
|------------|:---------|:---------------------------------------------|:-------|
| 2020-10-15 | [#459.4] | data-pipes-doc/documents/459.4.the-last-roadmap.dot | #done
| 2019-11-11 | [#881.2] | pho-doc/documents/881.2.roadmap-2.dot        | #active
| 2019-05-14 | [#881]   | pho-doc/documents/881-roadmap.dot            | #abandoned
| 2019-02-13 | [#869]   | kiss-rdb-doc/869-near-term-end-game.dot      | #medium #idk #almost-complete
| 2019-02-07 | [#867]   | kiss-rdb-doc/867-CUD-entities-roadmap.dot    | #good-reference CRUD order
| 2018-12-23 | [#857.1] | kiss-rdb-doc/857.1-backend-roadmap.dot       | #amusing #big #grid #aws
| 2018-12-08 | [#427]   | pho-doc/documents/427-frontend-roadmap.dot   | #small #linear
| 2018-12-08 | [#428]   | pho-doc/documents/428-design-roadmap.dot     | #fine
| 2018-12-08 | [#310]   | upload-bot-doc/310-project-roadmap.dot       | #tiny #deactivated
| 2018-12-08 | [#202]   | grep-dump-doc/205-project-roadmap.dot        | #tiny #deactivated
| 2018-12-08 | [#102]   | game-server-doc/102-project-roadmap.dot      | #linear
| 2018-06-13 | [#426]   | pho-doc/documents/426-publishing-roadmap.dot | #big #almost-complete
| 2018-04-21 | [#406]   | pho-doc/documents/406-everything.md          |



## (document-meta)

  - #born

Commit message:

content(pho): TMX Notebook publishes its first content ((1569))
Discussion: we didn’t literally “publish” the content, but this is
the first time we have an end result that feels finished

Overall we're very happy with it so far. We're worried about how
well it will scale out to larger and larger trees, but that's what
later is for.

Also:
- Sunsetted old symlinks & a config file used by old hugo site
- discovered another difference in hugo vs pelican markdown

(times)
  02-06 20:51  improve/fix opening issues so it's actually usable
               for practical use cases
  02-07 12:01  change procedural mish-mash into modern state machine
        20:32  just finished rewrite issues as FSA. now: expose
               interstitial lines to the client of the collection
               for parsing as “directives”
  02-08 05:09  maybe done with issues
        05:25  begin looking for help screen bug
        05:40  fixed it, have patch
        05:42  begin expose reindex as CLI command
        13:44  finished reindex as CLI
        18:21  finished --EID option
        20:45  44 documents look good, now we really want the
               '--remember' feature of pho issues
  02-09 03:29  it's working, it’s now “fun” to use
        14:24  done structuring & editing content & passing tests
.

pho-doc/documents/881.3-roadmaps.md, after:

---
title: "roadmaps"
date: 2020-10-05T23:00:00-04:00
excerpt: "classify other roadmaps"
---

(This is an attempt to maintain a list of all the "project roadmap"-style
documents (usually dotfiles) in to one place. But the last document in the
list, "everything", might hopefully subsume all these one day.)

(This does not look well-integrated with our published documentation and
so should probably not be published, but we're keeping it up for now so
we don't forget it exists.)



| Born       | Id       | File                                         | Tags   |
|------------|:---------|:---------------------------------------------|:-------|
| 2020-10-15 | [#459.4] | data-pipes-doc/documents/459.4.the-last-roadmap.dot | #done
| 2019-11-11 | [#881.2] | pho-doc/documents/881.2.roadmap-2.dot        | #active
| 2019-05-14 | [#881]   | pho-doc/documents/881-roadmap.dot            | #abandoned
| 2019-02-13 | [#869]   | kiss-rdb-doc/869-near-term-end-game.dot      | #medium #idk #almost-complete
| 2019-02-07 | [#867]   | kiss-rdb-doc/867-CUD-entities-roadmap.dot    | #good-reference CRUD order
| 2018-12-23 | [#857.1] | kiss-rdb-doc/857.1-backend-roadmap.dot       | #amusing #big #grid #aws
| 2018-12-08 | [#427]   | pho-doc/documents/427-frontend-roadmap.dot   | #small #linear
| 2018-12-08 | [#428]   | pho-doc/documents/428-design-roadmap.dot     | #fine
| 2018-12-08 | [#310]   | upload-bot-doc/310-project-roadmap.dot       | #tiny #deactivated
| 2018-12-08 | [#202]   | grep-dump-doc/205-project-roadmap.dot        | #tiny #deactivated
| 2018-12-08 | [#102]   | game-server-doc/102-project-roadmap.dot      | #linear
| 2018-06-13 | [#426]   | pho-doc/documents/426-publishing-roadmap.dot | #big #almost-complete
| 2018-04-21 | [#406]   | pho-doc/documents/406-everything.md          |



## (document-meta)

  - #born
