upload-bot-doc/303-testing-our-webserver.md, before:

# testing our webserver

## freeform discussion re: `postman`

there was one or two passing references to [postman][postman] in various
slack app [examples][here1] but no solid intro to using it for this purpose.

postman seems to come out of a chrome-extension and GUI backgrounds
and has the feel of a small IDE rather than of a testing or mocking library.

let's see how it fares for us..




## run those tests

some [installation](#c) may be necessary.

now:

    ./node_modules/newman/bin/newman.js run upload_bot_test/test_700_web/test-100-intro.postman-collection.json




## <a name=installation></a>installation: postman requires newman requires npm

in order to get newman in a versioned way, we made our whole project a
node module:

    npm init .

then:

    npm install --local newman

to confirm, remarkably:

    ./node_modules/newman/bin/newman.js -h




[here1]: https://github.com/slackapi/Slack-Python-Onboarding-Tutorial/blob/master/README.md#documentation-for-tools
[postman]: https://www.getpostman.com


## (document-meta)

  - #born.

Commit message:

(+slack-files-bot.05.08 tunneling and verification (31,8))
This is a bit of a mini-milestone, because it’s the first time our app
actually talks to slack using its own callback webserver. we had to
take some time to get our head around all its little moving parts, and
in so doing went on several important tangents (accounted for in the
immediately previous commits) to grant us the reproducibility and
control we wanted to go forward with this stuff.

But we now have:

  - start up scripts for both test environment and dev environment.
    (we can run both servers at the same time)

  - tunneling, so verification

In this commit:

  - add one more element to the expected list of environment variables
    (for verification)

  - started document on ngrok because had OCD and anxiety.
    it “paid off” because the verification at first didn’t work
    then it did, because of our OCD:

  - having parsimonious but extant logging (tracing) saved our ass
    when the verification at first didn’t work.

  - broke out stuff from main README into what became a document on
    deep musings about security and environment variables

  - added a README to the “700” tree of tests only so that we can
    say that thing about wanting to rename the one file.

  - theme music: Herzogenberg - Piano quartet in E Minor,
    Op. 75/Andante - Belcanto Strings - Andreas Frolich, Piano

(0.013s)

upload-bot-doc/303-testing-our-webserver.md, after:

# testing our webserver

## freeform discussion re: `postman`

there was one or two passing references to [postman][postman] in various
slack app [examples][here1] but no solid intro to using it for this purpose.

postman seems to come out of a chrome-extension and GUI backgrounds
and has the feel of a small IDE rather than of a testing or mocking library.

let's see how it fares for us..




## run those tests

some [installation](#c) may be necessary.

now:

    ./node_modules/newman/bin/newman.js run upload_bot_test/test_700_web/test-100-intro.postman-collection.json




## <a name=installation></a>installation: postman requires newman requires npm

in order to get newman in a versioned way, we made our whole project a
node module:

    npm init .

then:

    npm install --local newman

to confirm, remarkably:

    ./node_modules/newman/bin/newman.js -h




[here1]: https://github.com/slackapi/Slack-Python-Onboarding-Tutorial/blob/master/README.md#documentation-for-tools
[postman]: https://www.getpostman.com


## (document-meta)

  - #pending-rename: maybe mention postman in the name now for consistency with sibling files
  - #born.
