sakin-agac-doc/402-heroku-and-scala.md, before:

# heroku & scala notes

## objective & scope of this document

  - mosty this exists for posterity as a reference for future such efforts.
  - curently this is a thin mesh of notes,
  - but it is however _comprehensive_ of what we did
    to start working with heroku, from zero.
  - the sections are meant to be followed in chronological order, but are
    placed in this document *from bottom to top*. (generally the more
    interesting/volatile parts come later, so this way are near the top
    of the document for easier reference.)
  - unless stated explicitly, all below section terminal commands happen
    from the _project_ root (not [sub-project][up1] root; that is, be at
    the tippy-top where the `.git` directory is).




## then, pray:

(in one terminal (on the right):)

    heroku logs --tail --remote heroku1

then:

    git push heroku1 main:master

then (after a while)

    heroku open --remote heroku1

(we use the name "main" not "master" for our local master branch,
but this is contingent on personal choice not reflected anywhere
in our docs!)





## IMPORTANT tell it remotely that this:

heroku will try to autodetect stuff by looking at the root of our
project. our project is weird because it has python and the rest.
heroku will see the Pipfile and assume we want to use python, unless
we tell it explicitly what "buildpack" to use:

    heroku buildpacks:set heroku/scala --remote heroku1
    heroku buildpacks:set heroku/scala --remote heroku2




## then, tell our local repository about the new remote

(intead of:)

    heroku git:remote -a botnoise

(we do:)

    git remote add heroku1 https://git.heroku.com/botnoise.git
    git remote add heroku2 https://git.heroku.com/botnoise2.git

NOTE - we have a main one and a spare. the main one (as a heroku app)
doesn't explicitly name itself as `1` so the URL is more attractive.
but we use numbers for both of the remote names when working locally
so we have to remember to think about it.



heroku1	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise.git (fetch)
heroku1	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise.git (push)
heroku2	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise2.git (fetch)
heroku2	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise2.git (push)




## then make some apps

(originally we used the web interface, but use the CLI instead)

    heroku create botnoise
    heroku create botnoise2




## then, generate public key

(no need. but we needed the email/password for our heroku account.)




## then, run it locally:

    heroku local




## now, get the heroku CLI (for OS X)..

..per [here][heroku1]:

    brew install heroku/brew/heroku




## then, compile

(something about rebuild ETC)

    sbt compile stage




## then, copy these certain file over with this script

  - this is a rough sketch for how we bring over only the files we
    need from the heroku scala/Play example project.

  - this IS IN FLUX because originally we tried to get these files
    into a [sub-project][up1], but things weren't working and there
    were too many moving parts so we had to simplify by sticking
    closer to the example structure. we violate our "sub-project"
    structure in the interest of moving on, for now.

```sh
dst=.

src=z/scala-getting-started

echo "/project/project\n/project/target\n/target" >> "$dst/.gitignore"
  # (clean up the above in the file)

for i in "app" "conf" "project" "public" ; do
    echo cp -R "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
    cp -R "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
done

s=""
s="$s app.json"
s="$s build.sbt"
s="$s .env"
s="$s Procfile"
s="$s system.properties"

for i in $( print "$s" ) ; do
    echo cp "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
    cp "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
done

echo "(done.)"
```




## then, check out the scala starter project

    mkdir z  # if necessary
    cd z
    git clone https://github.com/heroku/scala-getting-started.git




## first, get `sbt` (the scala build tool)

(per [this scala doc][scala1])

    brew install sbt@1




[heroku1]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli
[scala1]: https://www.scala-sbt.org/
[up1]: ../README.md#sub-projects




## (document-meta)

  - #born.

Commit message:

(+sakin-agac.09.06 add strategic dependency graph, other notes.)
(times) (first field is day of the month)

  06 21:26  begin tutorial #4
  07 15:06  finished number #04 and had danced and slept etc
  08 21:46  start tutorial #6 (2nd attempt)
  12 23:55  PEEK at flutter.io  THIS IS SAND CASTLE SO NOT YET
     00:02  OK that looks doable
  13 06:19  gonna go ahead and D/L jetbrains toolbox
     06:26  installing IntelliJ (thru toolbox)
     06:32  OK. we are at the 'learn IDEA' screen. gonna go for a jog now.
     09:22  at cafe. begin new video
     10:26  SUCCESS! hello world compiles and runs from IntelliJ
     10:43  OK begin tutorial #5
     11:12  GREAT that was fun and easy
     20:31  resume lesson about play app structure after long sleep
  14 20:31  began again
  17 22:00  finished tutorial #7 FINALLY (had a multi-day slup)
     22:00  started the next one
     23:43  no actually start the next one
  19 03:23  try again, whatever
     04:30  no, really: gonna do tutorial #9 (views) now
     05:13  OK good job, done with tut #9. learned some stuff
     05:18  ok gonna start whatever tutorial #10 is
     05:25  finished. that was just a high level doo-hah where
            we wrote one controller with six methods with placeholders.
     05:27  OK, started tutorial #11
     04:26  OK, try start again with tutorial #11
     05:05  OK finished that one now trying #12
     05:20  just kidding, haven't started #12 yet
  21 02:21  start looking for good examples from heroku

sakin-agac-doc/402-heroku-and-scala.md, after:

# heroku & scala notes

## objective & scope of this document

  - mosty this exists for posterity as a reference for future such efforts.
  - curently this is a thin mesh of notes,
  - but it is however _comprehensive_ of what we did
    to start working with heroku, from zero.
  - the sections are meant to be followed in chronological order, but are
    placed in this document *from bottom to top*. (generally the more
    interesting/volatile parts come later, so this way are near the top
    of the document for easier reference.)
  - unless stated explicitly, all below section terminal commands happen
    from the _project_ root (not [sub-project][up1] root; that is, be at
    the tippy-top where the `.git` directory is).




## (NOTE the remaining sections go from last to first)

_(this way, the most interesting are usually at the top)_




## RANDOM "tickler"

look into these great things from [heroku7]

  - dropbox sync
  - heroku API




### scala play markdown extension

is [here][rando1].




## then, pray:

(in one terminal (on the right):)

    heroku logs --tail --remote heroku1

then:

    git push heroku1 main:master

then (after a while)

    heroku open --remote heroku1

(we use the name "main" not "master" for our local master branch,
but this is contingent on personal choice not reflected anywhere
in our docs!)





## IMPORTANT tell it remotely that this:

heroku will try to autodetect stuff by looking at the root of our
project. our project is weird because it has python and the rest.
heroku will see the Pipfile and assume we want to use python, unless
we tell it explicitly what "buildpack" to use:

    heroku buildpacks:set heroku/scala --remote heroku1
    heroku buildpacks:set heroku/scala --remote heroku2




## then, tell our local repository about the new remote

(intead of:)

    heroku git:remote -a botnoise

(we do:)

    git remote add heroku1 https://git.heroku.com/botnoise.git
    git remote add heroku2 https://git.heroku.com/botnoise2.git

NOTE - we have a main one and a spare. the main one (as a heroku app)
doesn't explicitly name itself as `1` so the URL is more attractive.
but we use numbers for both of the remote names when working locally
so we have to remember to think about it.



```
heroku1	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise.git (fetch)
heroku1	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise.git (push)
heroku2	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise2.git (fetch)
heroku2	https://git.heroku.com/botnoise2.git (push)
```




## then make some apps

(originally we used the web interface, but use the CLI instead)

    heroku create botnoise
    heroku create botnoise2




## then, generate public key

(no need. but we needed the email/password for our heroku account.)




## then, run it locally:

    heroku local




## now, get the heroku CLI (for OS X)..

..per [here][heroku1]:

    brew install heroku/brew/heroku




## then, compile

(something about rebuild ETC)

    sbt compile stage




## then, copy these certain file over with this script

  - this is a rough sketch for how we bring over only the files we
    need from the heroku scala/Play example project.

  - this IS IN FLUX because originally we tried to get these files
    into a [sub-project][up1], but things weren't working and there
    were too many moving parts so we had to simplify by sticking
    closer to the example structure. we violate our "sub-project"
    structure in the interest of moving on, for now.

```sh
dst=.

src=z/scala-getting-started

echo "/project/project\n/project/target\n/target" >> "$dst/.gitignore"
  # (clean up the above in the file)

for i in "app" "conf" "project" "public" ; do
    echo cp -R "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
    cp -R "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
done

s=""
s="$s app.json"
s="$s build.sbt"
s="$s .env"
s="$s Procfile"
s="$s system.properties"

for i in $( print "$s" ) ; do
    echo cp "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
    cp "$src/$i" "$dst/$i"
done

echo "(done.)"
```




## then, check out the scala starter project

    mkdir z  # if necessary
    cd z
    git clone https://github.com/heroku/scala-getting-started.git




## first, get `sbt` (the scala build tool)

(per [this scala doc][scala1])

    brew install sbt@1




[heroku7]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/how-heroku-works
[heroku1]: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli
[rando1]: https://github.com/orefalo/play-markdown
[scala1]: https://www.scala-sbt.org/
[up1]: ../README.md#sub-projects




## (document-meta)

  - #born.
