sakin-agac-doc/405-play.md, before:

# play.

mostly, auxiliary notes to accompany the YouTube tutorials by Radix Code.

sections go in reverse narrative order. if this is your first time
reading this, start from the last section.


## Tutorial #08 - How Routing Works in Play Framework

CORRECTION: no dash

  - how variables work in routes file




## Tutorial #07 - Play Application Structure





## Tutorial #05 - Debug Play Application in IntelliJ IDE

from the directory of the project:

    sbt run -jvm-debug 5006

(required debug argument)

then some stuff




## Tutorial #03 - Setup Dev Environment in Linux For IntelliJ IDEA IDE

type

    sbt

this enters you into a thing. from here, be like:

    run


(TODO was good)
(TODO try again from scratch)
(TODO make your own how-to from OS X)




## how we got here

  1. [play website]
  1. click on "Documentation"
  1. click on "Tutorials" (or similar)

find something like "Debug Play Application in IntelliJ IDE". this
should be a link to a YouTube. this video is by a group called
"Radix Code". they seem to have done a lot of work.




[ensime1]: http://ensime.github.io/
[play]: https://www.playframework.com




## (document-meta)

  - #born.

Commit message:

(+sakin-agac.09.06 add strategic dependency graph, other notes.)
(times) (first field is day of the month)

  06 21:26  begin tutorial #4
  07 15:06  finished number #04 and had danced and slept etc
  08 21:46  start tutorial #6 (2nd attempt)
  12 23:55  PEEK at flutter.io  THIS IS SAND CASTLE SO NOT YET
     00:02  OK that looks doable
  13 06:19  gonna go ahead and D/L jetbrains toolbox
     06:26  installing IntelliJ (thru toolbox)
     06:32  OK. we are at the 'learn IDEA' screen. gonna go for a jog now.
     09:22  at cafe. begin new video
     10:26  SUCCESS! hello world compiles and runs from IntelliJ
     10:43  OK begin tutorial #5
     11:12  GREAT that was fun and easy
     20:31  resume lesson about play app structure after long sleep
  14 20:31  began again
  17 22:00  finished tutorial #7 FINALLY (had a multi-day slup)
     22:00  started the next one
     23:43  no actually start the next one
  19 03:23  try again, whatever
     04:30  no, really: gonna do tutorial #9 (views) now
     05:13  OK good job, done with tut #9. learned some stuff
     05:18  ok gonna start whatever tutorial #10 is
     05:25  finished. that was just a high level doo-hah where
            we wrote one controller with six methods with placeholders.
     05:27  OK, started tutorial #11
     04:26  OK, try start again with tutorial #11
     05:05  OK finished that one now trying #12
     05:20  just kidding, haven't started #12 yet
  21 02:21  start looking for good examples from heroku

sakin-agac-doc/405-play.md, after:

# play.

mostly, auxiliary notes to accompany the YouTube tutorials by Radix Code.

sections go in reverse narrative order. if this is your first time
reading this, start from the last section.


## Tutorial #11 - xx


  - 3:16 - good lesson about precedence in routes





## Tutorial #10 - xx

  - controllers can go anywhere, but put it in controllers package.



## Tutorial #09 - [Views]

TO CREATE A VIEW - x




## Tutorial #08 - How Routing Works in Play Framework

CORRECTION: no dash

  - how variables work in routes file




## Tutorial #07 - Play Application Structure





## Tutorial #05 - Debug Play Application in IntelliJ IDE

from the directory of the project:

    sbt run -jvm-debug 5006

(required debug argument)

then some stuff




## Tutorial #03 - Setup Dev Environment in Linux For IntelliJ IDEA IDE

type

    sbt

this enters you into a thing. from here, be like:

    run


(TODO was good)
(TODO try again from scratch)
(TODO make your own how-to from OS X)




## how we got here

  1. [play website]
  1. click on "Documentation"
  1. click on "Tutorials" (or similar)

find something like "Debug Play Application in IntelliJ IDE". this
should be a link to a YouTube. this video is by a group called
"Radix Code". they seem to have done a lot of work.




[ensime1]: http://ensime.github.io/
[play]: https://www.playframework.com




## (document-meta)

  - #born.
