sakin-agac-doc/415-heroku-add-on-notes.md, before:

|Add-on  |Tags  |Freeform Notes  |
|:--|:--|:--|
| (example) | #example  | #example  |
|[Ably](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ably)||data delivery. see|
|[ACK Foundry](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ackfoundry)|#queueing||
|[Adding In-app Notifications with Pusher](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pusher-in-app-notifications)|#skip||
|[Adept Scale](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/adept-scale)|#scale||
|[Adminium](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/adminium)|#interesting #crud|yuck|
|[Airbrake Error Monitoring](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/airbrake)|#monitoring||
|[Algolia Realtime Search](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/algoliasearch)|#search||
|[AppDynamics](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/appdynamics)|#nodejs #analytics||
|[AppSignal](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/appsignal)|#ruby #monitoring||
|[Attachment Scanner](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/attachment-scanner)|#security||
|[AT&T M2X](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/m2x)|#IoT||
|[Auth0](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/auth0)|#auth #intersting||
|[Autobus](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/autobus)|#storage|backup|
|[binnacle](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/binnacle)|#interesting|sounds like if-this then-that|
|[Blackfire.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blackfire)|#PHP||
|[BlazeMeter](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blazemeter)|#analytics||
|[Blitline](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blitline)|#image||
|[Blower.io SMS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blowerio)|#SMS||
|[Bonsai Elasticsearch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/bonsai)|#search||
|[Boxcab](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/boxcab)|#INTERESTING #CMS||
|[Bucketeer](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/bucketeer)|#S3||
|[Bugsnag](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/bugsnag)|#monitoring||
|[Building a Unified Dashboard as an Ecosystem Partner](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-unified-dashboard-as-an-ecosystem-partner)|||
|[ButterCMS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/butter)|#CMS #interesting||
|[CameraTag](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cameratag)|#video #interesting||
|[Citus Data](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/citus)|#storage:postgres||
|[ClearDB MySQL](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cleardb)|#storage:mysql||
|[CloudAMQP](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudamqp)|#queueing:rabbitmq||
|[CloudBoost](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudboost)|#storage:mongodb||
|[Cloudcube](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudcube)|#S3||
|[Cloudinary](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudinary)|#image||
|[CloudKarafka](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudkarafka)|#big-data #ingress||
|[CloudMailIn](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudmailin)|#mail||
|[CloudMQTT](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudmqtt)|#queueing|(specialized)|
|[CloudRail](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudrail)|#interesting||
|[CloudSponge Contact Importer](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudsponge)|#social||
|[Codacy](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/codacy)|#development #interesting|a code review service!|
|[Codeship CI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/codeship)|#CI||
|[Compose MongoDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mongohq)|#storage:mongodb|hosting|
|[Constructor.io Autocomplete](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/constructor-io)|#search #autocomplete #interesting||
|[Coralogix](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/coralogix)|#log||
|[DbInsights](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dbinsights)|#viz||
|[Dead Man's Snitch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deadmanssnitch)|#monitoring||
|[deepstreamHub](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deepstreamhub)|#IoT||
|[Deploy Hooks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deploy-hooks)|#development||
|[DockHero](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dockhero)|#docker #AWS||
|[DocRaptor](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/docraptor)|#PDF||
|[Duperset](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/duperset)|#analytics||
|[Edge](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/edge)|#CDN||
|[Einstein Platform Services](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/einstein-platform-services)|#interesting||
|[Einstein Vision and Language](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/einstein-vision)|#interesting||
|[Elasticsearch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/foundelasticsearch)|#search||
|[Elegant CMS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/elegant-cms)|#CMS #interesting||
|[Exceptiontrap](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/exceptiontrap)|#monitoring||
|[Expedited SSL](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/expeditedssl)|#SSL||
|[Fastly](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/fastly)|#content-delivery||
|[Filestack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/filepicker)|#old #interesting #file-upload||
|[Fixie](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/fixie)|#IP||
|[Fixie Socks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/fixie-socks)|#IP-stuff||
|[FlightFormation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/flightformation)|#scaling-management||
|[Flying Sphinx](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/flying_sphinx)|#search||
|[FollowAnalytics](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/followanalytics)|#analytics||
|[Force.com Dev Hub Integration](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/force-devhub)|#salesforce||
|[Gemfury](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/gemfury)|#interesting||
|[Geocody](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/geocody)|#geo-location|from earth addresses|
|[GrapheneDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/graphenedb)|#storage:neo4j||
|[GRAX by Harding Point](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/engagementgraph)|#salesforce||
|[Guru301](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/guru301)|#IP-stuff||
|[Helpjuice](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/helpjuice)|#beta #looks-awful #knowledge-base #CMS||
|[Heroku Scheduler](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scheduler)|#scheduler||
|[Honeybadger](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/honeybadger)|#monitoring #interesting||
|[Hosted Graphite](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/hostedgraphite)|#analytics||
|[HyPDF](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/hypdf)|#PDF||
|[ICE](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ice)|#beta #encryption||
|[Informant](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/informant)|#analytics||
|[Instaclustr](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/instaclustr)|#storage:cassandra||
|[IP Investigator](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ipinvestigator)|#security||
|[IP to Earth](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iptoearth)|#geo-locating||
|[IronCache](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iron_cache)|#queueing||
|[IronMQ](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iron_mq)|#queueing||
|[IronWorker](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iron_worker)|#queueing||
|[JawsDB Maria](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/jawsdb-maria)|#storage:mariadb||
|[JawsDB MySQL](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/jawsdb)|#storage:mysql||
|[Keen IO](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/keen)|#analytics||
|[Librato](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/librato)|#analytics||
|[loader.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/loaderio)|#load-testing #interesting||
|[LogDNA](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logdna)|#logs||
|[Logentries](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logentries)|#logs||
|[Logz.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logzio)|#analytics #logs||
|[Mail2Webhook](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mail2webhook)|#mail||
|[Mailgun](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mailgun)|#mail||
|[Mailgun Email Validation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mailgun-validations)|           |           |
|[Mailtrap by Railsware](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mailtrap)|#email #interesting||
|[Marketing Connector](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mcconnect)|#salesforce||
|[Memcached Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachedcloud)|#storage:memcache||
|[MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachier)|#storage:memcache||
|[mLab MongoDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mongolab)|#storage:mongodb||
|[Monique.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/moniqueio)|#monitoring||
|[Neutrino Audiomatic](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/neutrino-audiomatic)|||
|[New Relic APM](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/newrelic)|#monitoring||
|[OAuth.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/oauthio)|#auth||
|[ObjectRocket for MongoDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ormongo)|#storage:mongodb|fully managed|
|[OCRestful](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ocrestful)|#beta #old #OCR||
|[OFS Blockchain](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blockchain)|#interesting||
|[openredis](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/openredis)|#storage:redis||
|[Papertrail](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/papertrail)|#monitoring #logs||
|[PhraseApp](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/phrase)|#translation||
|[Pingdom](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pingdom)|#monitoring||
|[PointDNS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pointdns)|#DNS||
|[prismic.io CMS backend](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/prismic)|#interesting #CMS||
|[Process Scheduler](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/process-scheduler)|#scheduler||
|[Proximo](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/proximo)|#IP-stuff||
|[PubNub](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pubnub)|#auth #IOT||
|[Pusher](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pusher)|#push #interesting||
|[Pushwoosh](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pushwoosh)|#beta #interesting #push||
|[QRackajack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/qrackajack)|#beta #QR-codes||
|[QuotaGuard](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quotaguard)|#IP-stuff||
|[QuotaGuard Static](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quotaguardstatic)|#IP-stuff||
|[RabbitMQ Bigwig](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rabbitmq-bigwig)|#queueing:rabbitmq||
|[Rails Autoscale](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rails-autoscale)|#rails #autoscale||
|[Rainforest QA](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rainforest)|#CI #interesting #costs-money||
|[Raygun](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/raygun)|#monitoring||
|[Real Email](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/realemail)|#email|validation|
|[Redis Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rediscloud)|#storage:redis||
|[RedisGreen](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/redisgreen)|#storage:redis||
|[RedisMonitor](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/redismonitor)|#storage:redis|(monitoring for storage)|
|[Redis To Go](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/redistogo)|#storage:redis||
|[Remora Offsite Backup](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/remora-backup)|#storage:postgres #backup||
|[Resizer](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/resizer)|#beta #images||
|[Rollbar](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rollbar)|#monitoring||
|[RuntimeError](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/runtimeerror)|#monitoring||
|[Scout](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scout)|#profiling||
|[Scrapetastic](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scrapetastic)|#beta #interesting||
|[SearchBox Elasticsearch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/searchbox)|#search||
|[Searchify](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/searchify)|#search||
|[Secure Key](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/securekey)|#security #auth|key rotation|
|[Semaphore](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/semaphore)|#CI #interesting||
|[SendGrid](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sendgrid)|#email||
|[SendGrid Marketing Campaigns](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sendgrid-marketing-campaigns)|#email||
|[Sentry](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sentry)|#old #monitoring||
|[SERP Scan](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/serpscan)|#SEO #costs-money||
|[Shared Workforce](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sharedworkforce)|#rails #corporate-workflow #moderation #human-service||
|[ShoCard](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/shocard)|#beta #auth #two-factor||
|[Shogun](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/shogun)|#beta #CMS #interesting||
|[Snyk](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/snyk)|#security #interesting||
|[SparkPost](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sparkpost)|#email||
|[Sqreen](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sqreen)|#security #interesting||
|[SSL FastTrack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sslfasttrack)|#SSL #auth||
|[StatusHub](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/statushub)|#status-page||
|[StatusPage](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/statuspage)|#status-page||
|[StillAlive](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/stillalive)|#monitoring||
|[Storj](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/storj)|#interesting #storage||
|[Stream](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/stream)|#new-ish #activity-streams #interesting||
|[SuggestGrid](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/suggestgrid)|#recommender-engine #interesting||
|[Sumo Logic](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sumologic)|#new #analystics #monitoring||
|[Swiftype Search & Autocomplete](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/swiftype)|#old #search||
|[Telestream Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pandastream)|#old-ish #video||
|[Temporize Scheduler](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/temporize)|#job-scheduling||
|[Till](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/till)|#SMS||
|[Tinfoil Security](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/tinfoilsecurity)|#security||
|[Transloadit](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/transloadit)|#INTERESTING||
|[Treasure Data](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/treasure-data)|#big-data #storage:hadoop #MPP #analytics||
|[Trevor.io Data Playground](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/trevor)|#new #interesting #storage:postgres||
|[TuneMyGC](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/tunemygc)|#old #beta #ruby|yuck|
|[Tynd Disque](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/tynd)|#GONE||
|[URL X-Ray](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/urlxray)|#old #beta #nslookup #monitoring||
|[User Agent Identifier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/useragentidentifier)|#old #beta #analytics|simplifies user agent detection|
|[Vigil Monitoring Service](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/vigil)|#old #monitoring #notification||
|[Watermarker](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/watermarker)|#old #beta #image|watermark images|
|[Websolr](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/websolr)|#old #costs-money #search|meh|
|[Wrenchmode](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/wrenchmode)|#beta #status-page|displays a maintenence page|
|[WSO2 API Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/wso2apicloud)|#beta #interesting|fully managed API's|
|[wwwhisper](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/wwwhisper)|#auth #ACL|ACL for Ruby Rack-based applications|
|[Xplenty](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/xplenty)|#storage:hadoop #analytics|ETL service for hadoop|
|[Yahoo BOSS API](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/yahooboss)|#beta #SUNSETTING #search|Yahoo BOSS Search API|
|[Zara 4](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/zara-4)|#beta #image|image compression|
|[Ziggeo](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ziggeo)|#multimedia|video recording and PLAYBACK|

Commit message:

(-tag-lyfe.1.1.9 Clerically edit many documents plus frontmatter)
Mainly this is a proof-of-concept dry-run for what it feels like to
have many several documents (a few dozen or so) under this blog theme.

  - forgot to have a blank line between a paragraph and a bulleted
    (or numbered) list.
  - spelling
  - obviously don’t have a dashed-work break on a line

sakin-agac-doc/415-heroku-add-on-notes.md, after:

---
title: "heroku add-on notes"
date: 2018-06-16T05:19:22-04:00
---
# heroku add-on notes

this is a machine-generated constituency of the heroku add-ons that
existed at at the moment it was generated, as a sort snapshot.

we use this collection to help guide our decisions about what technologies
are available from which to compose our architecture.

_a quick note on structure:_ we have tags in a separate column from
freeform notes, probably because this document predates the tag-parsing
library by more than a month..


|Add-on  |Tags  |Freeform Notes  |
|:--|:--|:--|
| (example) | #example  | #example  |
|[Ably](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ably)||data delivery. see|
|[ACK Foundry](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ackfoundry)|#queueing||
|[Adding In-app Notifications with Pusher](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pusher-in-app-notifications)|#skip||
|[Adept Scale](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/adept-scale)|#scale||
|[Adminium](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/adminium)|#interesting #crud|yuck|
|[Airbrake Error Monitoring](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/airbrake)|#monitoring||
|[Algolia Realtime Search](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/algoliasearch)|#search||
|[AppDynamics](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/appdynamics)|#nodejs #analytics||
|[AppSignal](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/appsignal)|#ruby #monitoring||
|[Attachment Scanner](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/attachment-scanner)|#security||
|[AT&T M2X](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/m2x)|#IoT||
|[Auth0](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/auth0)|#auth #intersting||
|[Autobus](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/autobus)|#storage|backup|
|[binnacle](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/binnacle)|#interesting|sounds like if-this then-that|
|[Blackfire.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blackfire)|#PHP||
|[BlazeMeter](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blazemeter)|#analytics||
|[Blitline](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blitline)|#image||
|[Blower.io SMS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blowerio)|#SMS||
|[Bonsai Elasticsearch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/bonsai)|#search||
|[Boxcab](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/boxcab)|#INTERESTING #CMS||
|[Bucketeer](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/bucketeer)|#S3||
|[Bugsnag](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/bugsnag)|#monitoring||
|[Building a Unified Dashboard as an Ecosystem Partner](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/building-a-unified-dashboard-as-an-ecosystem-partner)|||
|[ButterCMS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/butter)|#CMS #interesting||
|[CameraTag](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cameratag)|#video #interesting||
|[Citus Data](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/citus)|#storage:postgres||
|[ClearDB MySQL](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cleardb)|#storage:mysql||
|[CloudAMQP](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudamqp)|#queueing:rabbitmq||
|[CloudBoost](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudboost)|#storage:mongodb||
|[Cloudcube](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudcube)|#S3||
|[Cloudinary](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudinary)|#image||
|[CloudKarafka](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudkarafka)|#big-data #ingress||
|[CloudMailIn](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudmailin)|#mail||
|[CloudMQTT](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudmqtt)|#queueing|(specialized)|
|[CloudRail](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudrail)|#interesting||
|[CloudSponge Contact Importer](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/cloudsponge)|#social||
|[Codacy](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/codacy)|#development #interesting|a code review service!|
|[Codeship CI](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/codeship)|#CI||
|[Compose MongoDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mongohq)|#storage:mongodb|hosting|
|[Constructor.io Autocomplete](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/constructor-io)|#search #autocomplete #interesting||
|[Coralogix](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/coralogix)|#log||
|[DbInsights](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dbinsights)|#viz||
|[Dead Man's Snitch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deadmanssnitch)|#monitoring||
|[deepstreamHub](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deepstreamhub)|#IoT||
|[Deploy Hooks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deploy-hooks)|#development||
|[DockHero](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dockhero)|#docker #AWS||
|[DocRaptor](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/docraptor)|#PDF||
|[Duperset](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/duperset)|#analytics||
|[Edge](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/edge)|#CDN||
|[Einstein Platform Services](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/einstein-platform-services)|#interesting||
|[Einstein Vision and Language](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/einstein-vision)|#interesting||
|[Elasticsearch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/foundelasticsearch)|#search||
|[Elegant CMS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/elegant-cms)|#CMS #interesting||
|[Exceptiontrap](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/exceptiontrap)|#monitoring||
|[Expedited SSL](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/expeditedssl)|#SSL||
|[Fastly](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/fastly)|#content-delivery||
|[Filestack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/filepicker)|#old #interesting #file-upload||
|[Fixie](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/fixie)|#IP||
|[Fixie Socks](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/fixie-socks)|#IP-stuff||
|[FlightFormation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/flightformation)|#scaling-management||
|[Flying Sphinx](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/flying_sphinx)|#search||
|[FollowAnalytics](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/followanalytics)|#analytics||
|[Force.com Dev Hub Integration](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/force-devhub)|#salesforce||
|[Gemfury](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/gemfury)|#interesting||
|[Geocody](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/geocody)|#geo-location|from earth addresses|
|[GrapheneDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/graphenedb)|#storage:neo4j||
|[GRAX by Harding Point](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/engagementgraph)|#salesforce||
|[Guru301](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/guru301)|#IP-stuff||
|[Helpjuice](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/helpjuice)|#beta #looks-awful #knowledge-base #CMS||
|[Heroku Scheduler](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scheduler)|#scheduler||
|[Honeybadger](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/honeybadger)|#monitoring #interesting||
|[Hosted Graphite](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/hostedgraphite)|#analytics||
|[HyPDF](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/hypdf)|#PDF||
|[ICE](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ice)|#beta #encryption||
|[Informant](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/informant)|#analytics||
|[Instaclustr](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/instaclustr)|#storage:cassandra||
|[IP Investigator](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ipinvestigator)|#security||
|[IP to Earth](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iptoearth)|#geo-locating||
|[IronCache](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iron_cache)|#queueing||
|[IronMQ](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iron_mq)|#queueing||
|[IronWorker](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/iron_worker)|#queueing||
|[JawsDB Maria](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/jawsdb-maria)|#storage:mariadb||
|[JawsDB MySQL](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/jawsdb)|#storage:mysql||
|[Keen IO](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/keen)|#analytics||
|[Librato](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/librato)|#analytics||
|[loader.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/loaderio)|#load-testing #interesting||
|[LogDNA](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logdna)|#logs||
|[Logentries](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logentries)|#logs||
|[Logz.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/logzio)|#analytics #logs||
|[Mail2Webhook](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mail2webhook)|#mail||
|[Mailgun](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mailgun)|#mail||
|[Mailgun Email Validation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mailgun-validations)|           |           |
|[Mailtrap by Railsware](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mailtrap)|#email #interesting||
|[Marketing Connector](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mcconnect)|#salesforce||
|[Memcached Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachedcloud)|#storage:memcache||
|[MemCachier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/memcachier)|#storage:memcache||
|[mLab MongoDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/mongolab)|#storage:mongodb||
|[Monique.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/moniqueio)|#monitoring||
|[Neutrino Audiomatic](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/neutrino-audiomatic)|||
|[New Relic APM](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/newrelic)|#monitoring||
|[OAuth.io](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/oauthio)|#auth||
|[ObjectRocket for MongoDB](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ormongo)|#storage:mongodb|fully managed|
|[OCRestful](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ocrestful)|#beta #old #OCR||
|[OFS Blockchain](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/blockchain)|#interesting||
|[openredis](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/openredis)|#storage:redis||
|[Papertrail](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/papertrail)|#monitoring #logs||
|[PhraseApp](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/phrase)|#translation||
|[Pingdom](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pingdom)|#monitoring||
|[PointDNS](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pointdns)|#DNS||
|[prismic.io CMS backend](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/prismic)|#interesting #CMS||
|[Process Scheduler](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/process-scheduler)|#scheduler||
|[Proximo](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/proximo)|#IP-stuff||
|[PubNub](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pubnub)|#auth #IOT||
|[Pusher](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pusher)|#push #interesting||
|[Pushwoosh](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pushwoosh)|#beta #interesting #push||
|[QRackajack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/qrackajack)|#beta #QR-codes||
|[QuotaGuard](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quotaguard)|#IP-stuff||
|[QuotaGuard Static](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/quotaguardstatic)|#IP-stuff||
|[RabbitMQ Bigwig](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rabbitmq-bigwig)|#queueing:rabbitmq||
|[Rails Autoscale](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rails-autoscale)|#rails #autoscale||
|[Rainforest QA](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rainforest)|#CI #interesting #costs-money||
|[Raygun](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/raygun)|#monitoring||
|[Real Email](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/realemail)|#email|validation|
|[Redis Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rediscloud)|#storage:redis||
|[RedisGreen](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/redisgreen)|#storage:redis||
|[RedisMonitor](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/redismonitor)|#storage:redis|(monitoring for storage)|
|[Redis To Go](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/redistogo)|#storage:redis||
|[Remora Offsite Backup](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/remora-backup)|#storage:postgres #backup||
|[Resizer](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/resizer)|#beta #images||
|[Rollbar](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/rollbar)|#monitoring||
|[RuntimeError](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/runtimeerror)|#monitoring||
|[Scout](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scout)|#profiling||
|[Scrapetastic](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scrapetastic)|#beta #interesting||
|[SearchBox Elasticsearch](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/searchbox)|#search||
|[Searchify](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/searchify)|#search||
|[Secure Key](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/securekey)|#security #auth|key rotation|
|[Semaphore](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/semaphore)|#CI #interesting||
|[SendGrid](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sendgrid)|#email||
|[SendGrid Marketing Campaigns](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sendgrid-marketing-campaigns)|#email||
|[Sentry](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sentry)|#old #monitoring||
|[SERP Scan](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/serpscan)|#SEO #costs-money||
|[Shared Workforce](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sharedworkforce)|#rails #corporate-workflow #moderation #human-service||
|[ShoCard](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/shocard)|#beta #auth #two-factor||
|[Shogun](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/shogun)|#beta #CMS #interesting||
|[Snyk](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/snyk)|#security #interesting||
|[SparkPost](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sparkpost)|#email||
|[Sqreen](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sqreen)|#security #interesting||
|[SSL FastTrack](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sslfasttrack)|#SSL #auth||
|[StatusHub](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/statushub)|#status-page||
|[StatusPage](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/statuspage)|#status-page||
|[StillAlive](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/stillalive)|#monitoring||
|[Storj](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/storj)|#interesting #storage||
|[Stream](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/stream)|#new-ish #activity-streams #interesting||
|[SuggestGrid](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/suggestgrid)|#recommender-engine #interesting||
|[Sumo Logic](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/sumologic)|#new #analystics #monitoring||
|[Swiftype Search & Autocomplete](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/swiftype)|#old #search||
|[Telestream Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/pandastream)|#old-ish #video||
|[Temporize Scheduler](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/temporize)|#job-scheduling||
|[Till](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/till)|#SMS||
|[Tinfoil Security](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/tinfoilsecurity)|#security||
|[Transloadit](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/transloadit)|#INTERESTING||
|[Treasure Data](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/treasure-data)|#big-data #storage:hadoop #MPP #analytics||
|[Trevor.io Data Playground](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/trevor)|#new #interesting #storage:postgres||
|[TuneMyGC](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/tunemygc)|#old #beta #ruby|yuck|
|[Tynd Disque](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/tynd)|#GONE||
|[URL X-Ray](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/urlxray)|#old #beta #nslookup #monitoring||
|[User Agent Identifier](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/useragentidentifier)|#old #beta #analytics|simplifies user agent detection|
|[Vigil Monitoring Service](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/vigil)|#old #monitoring #notification||
|[Watermarker](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/watermarker)|#old #beta #image|watermark images|
|[Websolr](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/websolr)|#old #costs-money #search|meh|
|[Wrenchmode](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/wrenchmode)|#beta #status-page|displays a maintenence page|
|[WSO2 API Cloud](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/wso2apicloud)|#beta #interesting|fully managed API's|
|[wwwhisper](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/wwwhisper)|#auth #ACL|ACL for Ruby Rack-based applications|
|[Xplenty](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/xplenty)|#storage:hadoop #analytics|ETL service for hadoop|
|[Yahoo BOSS API](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/yahooboss)|#beta #SUNSETTING #search|Yahoo BOSS Search API|
|[Zara 4](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/zara-4)|#beta #image|image compression|
|[Ziggeo](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/ziggeo)|#multimedia|video recording and PLAYBACK|
