sakin-agac-doc/421-hugo-vs-jekyll-vs-etc.md, before:

### About Hugo
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|(example)|#example|
|[Overview](https://gohugo.io/about/)||
|[Hugo and GDPR](https://gohugo.io/about/hugo-and-gdpr/)||
|[Hugo 0.32 HOWTO](https://gohugo.io/about/new-in-032/)||
|[What is Hugo](https://gohugo.io/about/what-is-hugo/)||
|[Hugo Features](https://gohugo.io/about/features/)||
|[The Benefits of Static](https://gohugo.io/about/benefits/)||
|[License](https://gohugo.io/about/license/)||

### Getting Started
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Get Started Overview](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/)||
|[Quick Start](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/)||
|[Install Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/)||
|[Basic Usage](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/usage/)||
|[Directory Structure](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/directory-structure/)||
|[Configuration](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/)||

### Themes
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Themes Overview](https://gohugo.io/themes/)||
|[Install and Use Themes](https://gohugo.io/themes/installing-and-using-themes/)||
|[Theme Components](https://gohugo.io/themes/theme-components/)||
|[Create a Theme](https://gohugo.io/themes/creating/)||

### Content Management
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Content Management Overview](https://gohugo.io/content-management/)||
|[Organization](https://gohugo.io/content-management/organization/)||
|[Page Bundles](https://gohugo.io/content-management/page-bundles/)||
|[Supported Content Formats](https://gohugo.io/content-management/formats/)||
|[Front Matter](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/)||
|[Page Resources](https://gohugo.io/content-management/page-resources/)||
|[Image Processing](https://gohugo.io/content-management/image-processing/)||
|[Shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/)||
|[Related Content](https://gohugo.io/content-management/related/)||
|[Sections](https://gohugo.io/content-management/sections/)||
|[Types](https://gohugo.io/content-management/types/)||
|[Archetypes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/archetypes/)||
|[Taxonomies](https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/)||
|[Summaries](https://gohugo.io/content-management/summaries/)||
|[Links and Cross References](https://gohugo.io/content-management/cross-references/)||
|[URL Management](https://gohugo.io/content-management/urls/)||
|[Menus](https://gohugo.io/content-management/menus/)||
|[Static Files](https://gohugo.io/content-management/static-files/)||
|[Table of Contents](https://gohugo.io/content-management/toc/)||
|[Comments](https://gohugo.io/content-management/comments/)||
|[Multilingual and i18n](https://gohugo.io/content-management/multilingual/)||
|[Syntax Highlighting](https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/)||

### Templates
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Templates Overview](https://gohugo.io/templates/)||
|[Introduction](https://gohugo.io/templates/introduction/)||
|[Template Lookup Order](https://gohugo.io/templates/lookup-order/)||
|[Custom Output Formats](https://gohugo.io/templates/output-formats/)||
|[Base Templates and Blocks](https://gohugo.io/templates/base/)||
|[List Page Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/lists/)||
|[Homepage Template](https://gohugo.io/templates/homepage/)||
|[Section Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/section-templates/)||
|[Taxonomy Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/taxonomy-templates/)||
|[Single Page Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/single-page-templates/)||
|[Content View Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/views/)||
|[Data Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/data-templates/)||
|[Partial Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/partials/)||
|[Shortcode Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/shortcode-templates/)||
|[Local File Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/files/)||
|[404 Page](https://gohugo.io/templates/404/)||
|[Menu Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/menu-templates/)||
|[Pagination](https://gohugo.io/templates/pagination/)||
|[RSS Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/rss/)||
|[Sitemap Template](https://gohugo.io/templates/sitemap-template/)||
|[Robots.txt](https://gohugo.io/templates/robots/)||
|[Internal Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/internal/)||
|[Alternative Templating](https://gohugo.io/templates/alternatives/)||
|[Template Debugging](https://gohugo.io/templates/template-debugging/)||

### Functions
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Functions Quick Reference](https://gohugo.io/functions/)||
|[.AddDate](https://gohugo.io/functions/adddate/)||
|[.Format](https://gohugo.io/functions/format/)||
|[.Get](https://gohugo.io/functions/get/)||
|[.GetPage](https://gohugo.io/functions/getpage/)||
|[.HasMenuCurrent](https://gohugo.io/functions/hasmenucurrent/)||
|[.IsMenuCurrent](https://gohugo.io/functions/ismenucurrent/)||
|[.Param](https://gohugo.io/functions/param/)||
|[.Scratch](https://gohugo.io/functions/scratch/)||
|[.Unix](https://gohugo.io/functions/unix/)||
|[Math](https://gohugo.io/functions/math/)||
|[absLangURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/abslangurl/)||
|[absURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/absurl/)||
|[after](https://gohugo.io/functions/after/)||
|[apply](https://gohugo.io/functions/apply/)||
|[base64](https://gohugo.io/functions/base64/)||
|[chomp](https://gohugo.io/functions/chomp/)||
|[cond](https://gohugo.io/functions/cond/)||
|[countrunes](https://gohugo.io/functions/countrunes/)||
|[countwords](https://gohugo.io/functions/countwords/)||
|[dateFormat](https://gohugo.io/functions/dateformat/)||
|[default](https://gohugo.io/functions/default/)||
|[delimit](https://gohugo.io/functions/delimit/)||
|[dict](https://gohugo.io/functions/dict/)||
|[echoParam](https://gohugo.io/functions/echoparam/)||
|[emojify](https://gohugo.io/functions/emojify/)||
|[eq](https://gohugo.io/functions/eq/)||
|[errorf](https://gohugo.io/functions/errorf/)||
|[fileExists](https://gohugo.io/functions/fileexists/)||
|[findRE](https://gohugo.io/functions/findre/)||
|[first](https://gohugo.io/functions/first/)||
|[float](https://gohugo.io/functions/float/)||
|[ge](https://gohugo.io/functions/ge/)||
|[getenv](https://gohugo.io/functions/getenv/)||
|[gt](https://gohugo.io/functions/gt/)||
|[hasPrefix](https://gohugo.io/functions/hasprefix/)||
|[highlight](https://gohugo.io/functions/highlight/)||
|[htmlEscape](https://gohugo.io/functions/htmlescape/)||
|[htmlUnescape](https://gohugo.io/functions/htmlunescape/)||
|[humanize](https://gohugo.io/functions/humanize/)||
|[i18n](https://gohugo.io/functions/i18n/)||
|[imageConfig](https://gohugo.io/functions/imageconfig/)||
|[in](https://gohugo.io/functions/in/)||
|[index](https://gohugo.io/functions/index-function/)||
|[int](https://gohugo.io/functions/int/)||
|[intersect](https://gohugo.io/functions/intersect/)||
|[isset](https://gohugo.io/functions/isset/)||
|[jsonify](https://gohugo.io/functions/jsonify/)||
|[lang.Merge](https://gohugo.io/functions/lang.merge/)||
|[lang.NumFmt](https://gohugo.io/functions/numfmt/)||
|[last](https://gohugo.io/functions/last/)||
|[le](https://gohugo.io/functions/le/)||
|[lower](https://gohugo.io/functions/lower/)||
|[lt](https://gohugo.io/functions/lt/)||
|[markdownify](https://gohugo.io/functions/markdownify/)||
|[md5](https://gohugo.io/functions/md5/)||
|[ne](https://gohugo.io/functions/ne/)||
|[now](https://gohugo.io/functions/now/)||
|[partialCached](https://gohugo.io/functions/partialcached/)||
|[plainify](https://gohugo.io/functions/plainify/)||
|[pluralize](https://gohugo.io/functions/pluralize/)||
|[print](https://gohugo.io/functions/print/)||
|[printf](https://gohugo.io/functions/printf/)||
|[println](https://gohugo.io/functions/println/)||
|[querify](https://gohugo.io/functions/querify/)||
|[range](https://gohugo.io/functions/range/)||
|[readDir](https://gohugo.io/functions/readdir/)||
|[readFile](https://gohugo.io/functions/readfile/)||
|[ref](https://gohugo.io/functions/ref/)||
|[relLangURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/rellangurl/)||
|[relURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/relurl/)||
|[relref](https://gohugo.io/functions/relref/)||
|[render](https://gohugo.io/functions/render/)||
|[replace](https://gohugo.io/functions/replace/)||
|[replaceRE](https://gohugo.io/functions/replacere/)||
|[safeCSS](https://gohugo.io/functions/safecss/)||
|[safeHTML](https://gohugo.io/functions/safehtml/)||
|[safeHTMLAttr](https://gohugo.io/functions/safehtmlattr/)||
|[safeJS](https://gohugo.io/functions/safejs/)||
|[safeURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/safeurl/)||
|[seq](https://gohugo.io/functions/seq/)||
|[sha](https://gohugo.io/functions/sha/)||
|[shuffle](https://gohugo.io/functions/shuffle/)||
|[singularize](https://gohugo.io/functions/singularize/)||
|[slice](https://gohugo.io/functions/slice/)||
|[slicestr](https://gohugo.io/functions/slicestr/)||
|[sort](https://gohugo.io/functions/sort/)||
|[split](https://gohugo.io/functions/split/)||
|[string](https://gohugo.io/functions/string/)||
|[strings.Repeat](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.repeat/)||
|[strings.RuneCount](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.runecount/)||
|[strings.TrimLeft](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimleft/)||
|[strings.TrimPrefix](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimprefix/)||
|[strings.TrimRight](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimright/)||
|[strings.TrimSuffix](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimsuffix/)||
|[substr](https://gohugo.io/functions/substr/)||
|[time](https://gohugo.io/functions/time/)||
|[title](https://gohugo.io/functions/title/)||
|[trim](https://gohugo.io/functions/trim/)||
|[truncate](https://gohugo.io/functions/truncate/)||
|[union](https://gohugo.io/functions/union/)||
|[uniq](https://gohugo.io/functions/uniq/)||
|[upper](https://gohugo.io/functions/upper/)||
|[urlize](https://gohugo.io/functions/urlize/)||
|[urls.Parse](https://gohugo.io/functions/urls.parse/)||
|[where](https://gohugo.io/functions/where/)||
|[with](https://gohugo.io/functions/with/)||

### Variables
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Variables Overview](https://gohugo.io/variables/)||
|[Site Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/site/)||
|[Page Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/page/)||
|[Shortcode Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/shortcodes/)||
|[Taxonomy Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/taxonomy/)||
|[File Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/files/)||
|[Menu Entry Properties](https://gohugo.io/variables/menus/)||
|[Hugo Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/hugo/)||
|[Git Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/git/)||
|[Sitemap Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/sitemap/)||

### Hugo Pipes
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Hugo Pipes Overview](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/)||
|[Hugo Pipes Introduction](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/introduction/)||
|[SASS / SCSS](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/scss-sass/)||
|[PostCSS](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/postcss/)||
|[Asset minification](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/minification/)||
|[Asset bundling](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/bundling/)||
|[Fingerprinting and SRI](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/fingerprint/)||
|[Resource from Template](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/resource-from-template/)||
|[Resource from String](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/resource-from-string/)||

### CLI
|document node|about|
|---|---|

### Troubleshooting
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Troubleshoot](https://gohugo.io/troubleshooting/)||
|[FAQ](https://gohugo.io/troubleshooting/faq/)||
|[Build Performance](https://gohugo.io/troubleshooting/build-performance/)||

### Tools
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Developer Tools Overview](https://gohugo.io/tools/)||
|[Migrations](https://gohugo.io/tools/migrations/)||
|[Starter Kits](https://gohugo.io/tools/starter-kits/)||
|[Frontends](https://gohugo.io/tools/frontends/)||
|[Editor Plug-ins](https://gohugo.io/tools/editors/)||
|[Search](https://gohugo.io/tools/search/)||
|[Other Projects](https://gohugo.io/tools/other/)||

### Hosting & Deployment
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Hosting & Deployment Overview](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/)||
|[Host-Agnostic Deploys with Nanobox](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/deployment-with-nanobox/)||
|[Host on Netlify](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-netlify/)||
|[Host on Firebase](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-firebase/)||
|[Host on GitHub](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-github/)||
|[Host on GitLab](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-gitlab/)||
|[Hosting on KeyCDN](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-keycdn/)||
|[Host on Bitbucket](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-bitbucket/)||
|[Deployment with Wercker](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/deployment-with-wercker/)||
|[Deployment with Rsync](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/deployment-with-rsync/)||

### Contribute
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Contribute to Hugo](https://gohugo.io/contribute/)||
|[Development](https://gohugo.io/contribute/development/)||
|[Documentation](https://gohugo.io/contribute/documentation/)||
|[Themes](https://gohugo.io/contribute/themes/)||

### Maintenance
|document node|about|
|---|---|




## (document-meta)
  - #history-A.1: rewrite hand-written outline with generated markdown table
  - #born.

Commit message:

(-tag-lyfe.1.2.1 Capture snapshot of current, merged TODO.dot)
  - merge duplicate nodes, color-in things already done

  - the work that was in progress (doing reading notes about hugo)
    when we started this detour is also reflected here.

  - take sort of notes in our DIM SUM of features of hugo as we
    learn about them, possibly for use in a future article

(times)

  08-16 02:12  we see that github seems to recognize frontmatter
               so that's nice. so make coffee and pace around a bit
        02:24  start 'Overview' section
        03:24  no really, start first one
        03:31  begin third item
        04:04  begin reading the apache license for fun. this will end
               the first section. (i didn't really understand it)
        04:28  zz (take a break: twitter)
  08-17 01:47  begin reading about directory structure
        02:01  finished that one page. on to configuration
        03:11  ok we caught a mouse (two actually) and submitted a patch
               request for documentation (accepted immediately, yay.)
               now leaving "getting started" content section and
               moving on to themes.
        04:02  really piddling around. finished watching video about
               downloading and setting a theme.
        04:16  pause that to install gimp
        05:01  finished skimming the list of gimp tutorials
               (offical list in documentation)
  08-18 - 08-20 (did family reuinion in ohio for the weekend. no code)
        08-21  day off: nothing but goof around and dance :P
  08-22 04:48  feeling unmoored. making a new scratch graph
               still have writers block .. gonna look at this same tut

squash 2 back

sakin-agac-doc/421-hugo-vs-jekyll-vs-etc.md, after:

### About Hugo
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|(example)|#example|
|[Overview](https://gohugo.io/about/)|#overview-page|
|[Hugo and GDPR](https://gohugo.io/about/hugo-and-gdpr/)|#not-currently-interesting|
|[Hugo 0.32 HOWTO](https://gohugo.io/about/new-in-032/)|#deferred because #is-summary|
|[What is Hugo](https://gohugo.io/about/what-is-hugo/)|#informational|
|[Hugo Features](https://gohugo.io/about/features/)|#TODO come back to this. be sure we hit all of these|
|[The Benefits of Static](https://gohugo.io/about/benefits/)|#informational. 10 external links.|
|[License](https://gohugo.io/about/license/)|#not-currently-interesting|

### Getting Started
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Get Started Overview](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/)|#overview-page|
|[Quick Start](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/quick-start/)|#UDI-maybe|
|[Install Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/)|#UDI-maybe|
|[Basic Usage](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/usage/)|#TODO publishdate draft expirydate|
|[Directory Structure](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/directory-structure/)|#overview-page #TODO: re-read all of this after reach end|
|[Configuration](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/configuration/)|#lowlevel-reference #TODO: GitInfo is what's up|

### Themes
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Themes Overview](https://gohugo.io/themes/)|#overview-page|
|[Install and Use Themes](https://gohugo.io/themes/installing-and-using-themes/)||
|[Theme Components](https://gohugo.io/themes/theme-components/)||
|[Create a Theme](https://gohugo.io/themes/creating/)||

### Content Management
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Content Management Overview](https://gohugo.io/content-management/)||
|[Organization](https://gohugo.io/content-management/organization/)||
|[Page Bundles](https://gohugo.io/content-management/page-bundles/)||
|[Supported Content Formats](https://gohugo.io/content-management/formats/)||
|[Front Matter](https://gohugo.io/content-management/front-matter/)||
|[Page Resources](https://gohugo.io/content-management/page-resources/)||
|[Image Processing](https://gohugo.io/content-management/image-processing/)||
|[Shortcodes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/)||
|[Related Content](https://gohugo.io/content-management/related/)||
|[Sections](https://gohugo.io/content-management/sections/)||
|[Types](https://gohugo.io/content-management/types/)||
|[Archetypes](https://gohugo.io/content-management/archetypes/)||
|[Taxonomies](https://gohugo.io/content-management/taxonomies/)||
|[Summaries](https://gohugo.io/content-management/summaries/)||
|[Links and Cross References](https://gohugo.io/content-management/cross-references/)||
|[URL Management](https://gohugo.io/content-management/urls/)||
|[Menus](https://gohugo.io/content-management/menus/)||
|[Static Files](https://gohugo.io/content-management/static-files/)||
|[Table of Contents](https://gohugo.io/content-management/toc/)||
|[Comments](https://gohugo.io/content-management/comments/)||
|[Multilingual and i18n](https://gohugo.io/content-management/multilingual/)||
|[Syntax Highlighting](https://gohugo.io/content-management/syntax-highlighting/)||

### Templates
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Templates Overview](https://gohugo.io/templates/)||
|[Introduction](https://gohugo.io/templates/introduction/)||
|[Template Lookup Order](https://gohugo.io/templates/lookup-order/)||
|[Custom Output Formats](https://gohugo.io/templates/output-formats/)||
|[Base Templates and Blocks](https://gohugo.io/templates/base/)||
|[List Page Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/lists/)||
|[Homepage Template](https://gohugo.io/templates/homepage/)||
|[Section Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/section-templates/)||
|[Taxonomy Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/taxonomy-templates/)||
|[Single Page Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/single-page-templates/)||
|[Content View Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/views/)||
|[Data Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/data-templates/)||
|[Partial Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/partials/)||
|[Shortcode Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/shortcode-templates/)||
|[Local File Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/files/)||
|[404 Page](https://gohugo.io/templates/404/)||
|[Menu Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/menu-templates/)||
|[Pagination](https://gohugo.io/templates/pagination/)||
|[RSS Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/rss/)||
|[Sitemap Template](https://gohugo.io/templates/sitemap-template/)||
|[Robots.txt](https://gohugo.io/templates/robots/)||
|[Internal Templates](https://gohugo.io/templates/internal/)||
|[Alternative Templating](https://gohugo.io/templates/alternatives/)||
|[Template Debugging](https://gohugo.io/templates/template-debugging/)||

### Functions
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Functions Quick Reference](https://gohugo.io/functions/)||
|[.AddDate](https://gohugo.io/functions/adddate/)||
|[.Format](https://gohugo.io/functions/format/)||
|[.Get](https://gohugo.io/functions/get/)||
|[.GetPage](https://gohugo.io/functions/getpage/)||
|[.HasMenuCurrent](https://gohugo.io/functions/hasmenucurrent/)||
|[.IsMenuCurrent](https://gohugo.io/functions/ismenucurrent/)||
|[.Param](https://gohugo.io/functions/param/)||
|[.Scratch](https://gohugo.io/functions/scratch/)||
|[.Unix](https://gohugo.io/functions/unix/)||
|[Math](https://gohugo.io/functions/math/)||
|[absLangURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/abslangurl/)||
|[absURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/absurl/)||
|[after](https://gohugo.io/functions/after/)||
|[apply](https://gohugo.io/functions/apply/)||
|[base64](https://gohugo.io/functions/base64/)||
|[chomp](https://gohugo.io/functions/chomp/)||
|[cond](https://gohugo.io/functions/cond/)||
|[countrunes](https://gohugo.io/functions/countrunes/)||
|[countwords](https://gohugo.io/functions/countwords/)||
|[dateFormat](https://gohugo.io/functions/dateformat/)||
|[default](https://gohugo.io/functions/default/)||
|[delimit](https://gohugo.io/functions/delimit/)||
|[dict](https://gohugo.io/functions/dict/)||
|[echoParam](https://gohugo.io/functions/echoparam/)||
|[emojify](https://gohugo.io/functions/emojify/)||
|[eq](https://gohugo.io/functions/eq/)||
|[errorf](https://gohugo.io/functions/errorf/)||
|[fileExists](https://gohugo.io/functions/fileexists/)||
|[findRE](https://gohugo.io/functions/findre/)||
|[first](https://gohugo.io/functions/first/)||
|[float](https://gohugo.io/functions/float/)||
|[ge](https://gohugo.io/functions/ge/)||
|[getenv](https://gohugo.io/functions/getenv/)||
|[gt](https://gohugo.io/functions/gt/)||
|[hasPrefix](https://gohugo.io/functions/hasprefix/)||
|[highlight](https://gohugo.io/functions/highlight/)||
|[htmlEscape](https://gohugo.io/functions/htmlescape/)||
|[htmlUnescape](https://gohugo.io/functions/htmlunescape/)||
|[humanize](https://gohugo.io/functions/humanize/)||
|[i18n](https://gohugo.io/functions/i18n/)||
|[imageConfig](https://gohugo.io/functions/imageconfig/)||
|[in](https://gohugo.io/functions/in/)||
|[index](https://gohugo.io/functions/index-function/)||
|[int](https://gohugo.io/functions/int/)||
|[intersect](https://gohugo.io/functions/intersect/)||
|[isset](https://gohugo.io/functions/isset/)||
|[jsonify](https://gohugo.io/functions/jsonify/)||
|[lang.Merge](https://gohugo.io/functions/lang.merge/)||
|[lang.NumFmt](https://gohugo.io/functions/numfmt/)||
|[last](https://gohugo.io/functions/last/)||
|[le](https://gohugo.io/functions/le/)||
|[lower](https://gohugo.io/functions/lower/)||
|[lt](https://gohugo.io/functions/lt/)||
|[markdownify](https://gohugo.io/functions/markdownify/)||
|[md5](https://gohugo.io/functions/md5/)||
|[ne](https://gohugo.io/functions/ne/)||
|[now](https://gohugo.io/functions/now/)||
|[partialCached](https://gohugo.io/functions/partialcached/)||
|[plainify](https://gohugo.io/functions/plainify/)||
|[pluralize](https://gohugo.io/functions/pluralize/)||
|[print](https://gohugo.io/functions/print/)||
|[printf](https://gohugo.io/functions/printf/)||
|[println](https://gohugo.io/functions/println/)||
|[querify](https://gohugo.io/functions/querify/)||
|[range](https://gohugo.io/functions/range/)||
|[readDir](https://gohugo.io/functions/readdir/)||
|[readFile](https://gohugo.io/functions/readfile/)||
|[ref](https://gohugo.io/functions/ref/)||
|[relLangURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/rellangurl/)||
|[relURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/relurl/)||
|[relref](https://gohugo.io/functions/relref/)||
|[render](https://gohugo.io/functions/render/)||
|[replace](https://gohugo.io/functions/replace/)||
|[replaceRE](https://gohugo.io/functions/replacere/)||
|[safeCSS](https://gohugo.io/functions/safecss/)||
|[safeHTML](https://gohugo.io/functions/safehtml/)||
|[safeHTMLAttr](https://gohugo.io/functions/safehtmlattr/)||
|[safeJS](https://gohugo.io/functions/safejs/)||
|[safeURL](https://gohugo.io/functions/safeurl/)||
|[seq](https://gohugo.io/functions/seq/)||
|[sha](https://gohugo.io/functions/sha/)||
|[shuffle](https://gohugo.io/functions/shuffle/)||
|[singularize](https://gohugo.io/functions/singularize/)||
|[slice](https://gohugo.io/functions/slice/)||
|[slicestr](https://gohugo.io/functions/slicestr/)||
|[sort](https://gohugo.io/functions/sort/)||
|[split](https://gohugo.io/functions/split/)||
|[string](https://gohugo.io/functions/string/)||
|[strings.Repeat](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.repeat/)||
|[strings.RuneCount](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.runecount/)||
|[strings.TrimLeft](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimleft/)||
|[strings.TrimPrefix](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimprefix/)||
|[strings.TrimRight](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimright/)||
|[strings.TrimSuffix](https://gohugo.io/functions/strings.trimsuffix/)||
|[substr](https://gohugo.io/functions/substr/)||
|[time](https://gohugo.io/functions/time/)||
|[title](https://gohugo.io/functions/title/)||
|[trim](https://gohugo.io/functions/trim/)||
|[truncate](https://gohugo.io/functions/truncate/)||
|[union](https://gohugo.io/functions/union/)||
|[uniq](https://gohugo.io/functions/uniq/)||
|[upper](https://gohugo.io/functions/upper/)||
|[urlize](https://gohugo.io/functions/urlize/)||
|[urls.Parse](https://gohugo.io/functions/urls.parse/)||
|[where](https://gohugo.io/functions/where/)||
|[with](https://gohugo.io/functions/with/)||

### Variables
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Variables Overview](https://gohugo.io/variables/)||
|[Site Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/site/)||
|[Page Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/page/)||
|[Shortcode Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/shortcodes/)||
|[Taxonomy Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/taxonomy/)||
|[File Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/files/)||
|[Menu Entry Properties](https://gohugo.io/variables/menus/)||
|[Hugo Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/hugo/)||
|[Git Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/git/)||
|[Sitemap Variables](https://gohugo.io/variables/sitemap/)||

### Hugo Pipes
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Hugo Pipes Overview](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/)||
|[Hugo Pipes Introduction](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/introduction/)||
|[SASS / SCSS](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/scss-sass/)||
|[PostCSS](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/postcss/)||
|[Asset minification](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/minification/)||
|[Asset bundling](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/bundling/)||
|[Fingerprinting and SRI](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/fingerprint/)||
|[Resource from Template](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/resource-from-template/)||
|[Resource from String](https://gohugo.io/hugo-pipes/resource-from-string/)||

### CLI
|document node|about|
|---|---|

### Troubleshooting
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Troubleshoot](https://gohugo.io/troubleshooting/)||
|[FAQ](https://gohugo.io/troubleshooting/faq/)||
|[Build Performance](https://gohugo.io/troubleshooting/build-performance/)||

### Tools
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Developer Tools Overview](https://gohugo.io/tools/)||
|[Migrations](https://gohugo.io/tools/migrations/)||
|[Starter Kits](https://gohugo.io/tools/starter-kits/)||
|[Frontends](https://gohugo.io/tools/frontends/)||
|[Editor Plug-ins](https://gohugo.io/tools/editors/)||
|[Search](https://gohugo.io/tools/search/)||
|[Other Projects](https://gohugo.io/tools/other/)||

### Hosting & Deployment
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Hosting & Deployment Overview](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/)||
|[Host-Agnostic Deploys with Nanobox](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/deployment-with-nanobox/)||
|[Host on Netlify](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-netlify/)||
|[Host on Firebase](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-firebase/)||
|[Host on GitHub](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-github/)||
|[Host on GitLab](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-gitlab/)||
|[Hosting on KeyCDN](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-keycdn/)||
|[Host on Bitbucket](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/hosting-on-bitbucket/)||
|[Deployment with Wercker](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/deployment-with-wercker/)||
|[Deployment with Rsync](https://gohugo.io/hosting-and-deployment/deployment-with-rsync/)||

### Contribute
|document node|about|
|---|---|
|[Contribute to Hugo](https://gohugo.io/contribute/)||
|[Development](https://gohugo.io/contribute/development/)||
|[Documentation](https://gohugo.io/contribute/documentation/)||
|[Themes](https://gohugo.io/contribute/themes/)||

### Maintenance
|document node|about|
|---|---|




## (document-meta)
  - #history-A.1: rewrite hand-written outline with generated markdown table
  - #born.
