sakin-agac-doc/README.md, before:

# sakin agac

(bastardized for the nonsensical turkish "calm tree")




## objective & scope

mainly:
  - learn react.
  - experiment with unobtrusive static pages
  - do that one static thing with tables
  - do that one static pipeline with webpack

now, these ideas are expanded in [their own document][\[#403\]].




## sub-node table (experiment)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content
|---------------------------|:-----:|-
|                   #414.2  |       | (external tracking)
|                   #413    | #open | undefined: when row edited, does endcap get normalized-in or not?
|                   #412    | #open | "strict" "typing" (track true wishpoints)
|                   #411    |       | [the function that flushes stream processors]
|                   #410.N  | #trak | this broad pattern: class as context manager
|                   #410.M  | #trak | where sparseness is implemented
|                   #410.L  | #trak | whether in-memory should be official format
|                   #410.K  | #trak | CLI integration tests have redundant setup
|                   #410.J  | #hole |
|                   #410.I  | #open | remove this redundancy
|                   #410.H  | #trak | fixture executables aren't actuall exe.. (see)
|                   #410.G  | #trak | nested context managers closing each other
|                   #410.F  |       | provision: context managers (see)
|                   #410.E  | #open | dashes to underscores is getting annoying
|                   #410.D  | #trak | spots to change if we add this feature (see)
|                   #410.C  | #wish | we want regex escape
|                   #410.B  |       | "item" wrapper classes - exploratory
|                   #410    |       | (internal tracking)
|<a name=409></a>[\[#409\]] |       | parsing markdown tables in documents
|                   #409.A  |       | central conceit: markdown table as datastore
|<a name=408></a>[\[#408\]] |       | decompose the algorithm
|<a name=407></a>[\[#407\]] |       | collection synchorniation algorithm
|<a name=406></a>[\[#406\]] |       | strategic dependency graph
|<a name=405></a>[\[#405\]] |       | play
|<a name=404></a>[\[#404\]] |       | wiki app dim sum
|<a name=403></a>[\[#403\]] |       | broad objectives
|<a name=402></a>[\[#402\]] |       | heroku and scala





[\[#409\]]: 409-ersatz-parsing-a-markdown-document-for-tables.dot
[\[#408\]]: 408-decompose-the-synchronization-algorithm.md
[\[#407\]]: 407-collection-synchronization-algorithm.md
[\[#406\]]: 406-strategic-dependency-graph.dot
[\[#405\]]: 405-play.md
[\[#404\]]: 404-wiki-app-dim-sum.md
[\[#403\]]: 403-broad-objectives.md
[\[#402\]]: 402-heroku-and-scala.md





## (document-meta)

  - #born.

Commit message:

(-tag-lyfe.19.2.2 adapt to raw markdown as producer source (183))
(this commit has several verbose inline comments.)

Along the way:

  - the thing that cached HTML documents grabbed by beautiful soup,
    that’s definitely a guy we want to abstract into its own thing.

  - experimenting with a possibly improved `emit` as a higher-level
    way to toss around the listener..

  - yikes start bumping into oldschool vs. newschool message emission

  - whoops how is it that all these fixture executables cannot start
    with a number in their name and we are only just now figuring this
    out? it’s because none of them to date have ever been loaded as
    modules in the normal way (with static, hand-written code). neat.

(times)
  06-23 06:09  begin abstracting record filter via definition
        07:52  finished refactoring out the thing
        10:40  slept
        13:30  woke
        14:33  mostly finished, but need to cover new guy
  06-24 14:39  you're so great - let's begin again
  06-25 12:51  hope we are done with this test and producer script,
               realize we are in an OCD pocket, let's close it up
        16:17  now (lots of little edges cropped up)

sakin-agac-doc/README.md, after:

# sakin agac

(bastardized for the nonsensical turkish "calm tree")




## objective & scope

mainly:
  - learn react.
  - experiment with unobtrusive static pages
  - do that one static thing with tables
  - do that one static pipeline with webpack

now, these ideas are expanded in [their own document][\[#403\]].




## sub-node table (experiment)

|Id                         | Main Tag | Content
|---------------------------|:-----:|-
|                   #414.2  |       | (external tracking)
|                   #413    | #open | undefined: when row edited, does endcap get normalized-in or not?
|                   #412    | #open | "strict" "typing" (track true wishpoints)
|                   #411    |       | [the function that flushes stream processors]
|                   #410.Q  | #prov | provision: natural key field name always leftmost (things will break)
|                   #410.P  | #wish | would we really want a moin moin adaption?
|                   #410.M  | #trak | where sparseness is implemented
|                   #410.L  | #trak | whether in-memory should be official format
|                   #410.K  | #trak | CLI integration tests have redundant setup
|                   #410.J  | #trak | [record mapper]
|                   #410.I  | #open | remove this redundancy
|                   #410.H  | #trak | fixture executables aren't actuall exe.. (see)
|                   #410.G  | #trak | nested context managers closing each other
|                 #410.F.2  |       | provision: on failure, you must still result in an iterator
|                   #410.F  | #trak | this broad pattern: class as context manager
|                   #410.E  | #open | dashes to underscores is getting annoying
|                   #410.D  | #trak | spots to change if we add this feature (see)
|                   #410.C  | #wish | we want regex escape
|                   #410.B  |       | "item" wrapper classes - exploratory
|                   #410    |       | (internal tracking)
|<a name=409></a>[\[#409\]] |       | parsing markdown tables in documents
|                   #409.A  |       | central conceit: markdown table as datastore
|<a name=408></a>[\[#408\]] |       | decompose the algorithm
|<a name=407></a>[\[#407\]] |       | collection synchorniation algorithm
|<a name=406></a>[\[#406\]] |       | strategic dependency graph
|<a name=405></a>[\[#405\]] |       | play
|<a name=404></a>[\[#404\]] |       | wiki app dim sum
|<a name=403></a>[\[#403\]] |       | broad objectives
|<a name=402></a>[\[#402\]] |       | heroku and scala





[\[#409\]]: 409-ersatz-parsing-a-markdown-document-for-tables.dot
[\[#408\]]: 408-decompose-the-synchronization-algorithm.md
[\[#407\]]: 407-collection-synchronization-algorithm.md
[\[#406\]]: 406-strategic-dependency-graph.dot
[\[#405\]]: 405-play.md
[\[#404\]]: 404-wiki-app-dim-sum.md
[\[#403\]]: 403-broad-objectives.md
[\[#402\]]: 402-heroku-and-scala.md





## (document-meta)

  - #born.
